 
Table: Top eight candidates from the Heavy Stress profile. These represent near-optimal structures according to the engine’s scoring metric. They are highly 
complex, heavily branched (several tertiary and quaternary carbons), and many include oxygen substitutions (O) indicating the presence of ether or alcohol 
functional groups that our scoring heuristic apparently favored for ignition properties. These molecules push the boundaries of what we might consider as 
realistic fuel components, highlighting that the engine, when pushed, will explore edge cases of the chemical space. 
Brutal Profile 
Finally, the Brutal profile is our ultimate stress test, designed to push the engine to its scalability limits. This profile uses the maximum settings we deemed 
feasible and was run primarily to observe how performance scales at the extreme end, and whether any component of the engine breaks down under sheer 
volume. 
Parameterization: We threw the kitchen sink at this run: 10 seed molecules (covering a broad diversity), 5 generations of mutations for each (deep 
exploration), and minimal artificial limits on branching. Essentially, at each generation, every possible fragment attachment or mutation that passes basic 
chemical validity is allowed to produce a new candidate. We rely on the filters as the only brake to cull the explosion of structures. This means the engine 
potentially examines a huge swath of chemical space – far more than would be practical for any real design experiment, but ideal for seeing how the 
system copes. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^6. Given the multiplicative growth with 10 seeds and 5 generations, the theoretical number of raw 
structures could reach into the millions (if each molecule gave ~4-5 children consistently, 10 * 5^5 would be 31,250, but with 5 generations it could be much 
higher if branching increases at later generations). We anticipated that after filtering, the engine might still end up processing a number of candidates in the 
high hundreds of thousands, possibly approaching one million. 
Actual candidates processed: The Brutal run indeed pushed into the seven figures. We recorded over 800,000 candidate molecules that made it through 
filtering and were scored. This is an enormous number – to put it in perspective, that’s nearly a million evaluations of the surrogate scoring function within 
one run. The raw generation count was even higher (several million structures considered), but the majority were pruned out by the filters before scoring. At 
this scale, even the memory footprint became significant: storing hundreds of thousands of molecule objects and their scores in memory was taxing but 
manageable on our 32 GB system, whereas the 16 GB system was closer to its limits (we had to ensure efficient deletion of discarded candidates to avoid 
runaway memory usage). 
Execution time: The Brutal profile is time-consuming, on the order of an hour. On the i7-8700 (System A), the run took about 3,600 seconds 
(approximately 60 minutes). On the i5-12th Gen system, it completed in roughly 2,700 seconds (around 45 minutes). This ~15-minute difference 
underscores how the newer hardware can significantly shorten even very long runs (System B was about 33% faster, similar to the Heavy profile 
improvement). Over the course of this run, the CPU was pegged at full utilization almost continuously, and we observed that certain steps (like large sorting 
operations and massive loops over candidates) started to dominate the runtime profile. Despite the length of this run, it was successful – the engine did not 
crash, and it managed to enumerate and score an immense number of candidates, which speaks to the stability of the implementation under stress. 
The top 8 molecules from the Brutal profile are listed below. By virtue of exploring such a gigantic space, these candidates achieved the highest scores 
we’ve seen. They may represent the theoretical extreme of our scoring function’s preferences – extremely complex molecules combining many favorable 
features. However, it’s worth noting that just because the engine found these as top scorers doesn’t mean they’re practical fuel molecules; rather, they 
reflect the surrogate model’s biases when given free rein. For our purposes, they serve to confirm that the engine was indeed exploring new territory up to 
the last iteration, and they give a sense of what “optimal” looked like in this toy model’s eyes. 
Brutal Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)                                           Score 
1     CC(C)(C(O)C(C)C=C(C)C)C(C)(C)C(OC(C)C(C)C)=C(C)C           0.99  
2     C=C(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C(C)C)C(C)C(COC(C)C(C)C)C(C)C           0.98  
3     CC1(C)C(C)(C)C(CO)C(C)(C)C(COC(C)C)C(C)C1(C)C             0.98  
19 
