

===== PAGE 1 / 37 =====

 
Ignition Protocol 
An Evolutionary Engine for Molecular Combustion 
 
Stripe Young Scientist & Technology Exhibition 2026 
 
 
 
by Finn Harnedy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 2 / 37 =====

 
Table of Contents 
 
Table of Contents 
1. Abstract 
2. Introduction 
3. Literature Review 
3.1 Historical Development of Gasoline and Diesel Fuels 
3.2 Combustion Science Fundamentals: Stoichiometry, Ignition, and Flame Speed 
3.3 Emissions Chemistry: NOx, Soot, CO, CO₂, and Aldehydes 
3.4 Regulatory Drivers: Emission Standards and Fuel Policy 
3.5 Fuel Performance Metrics: Octane, Cetane, and Other Key Indices 
Methodology 
1. Dataset Preparation and Fragment Cleaning 
2. Evolutionary Generator and Molecular Construction 
4. Combustion Testing and Fingerprint Collection 
5. Microbial Biodegradability and Storage Stability Tests 
6. Software and Tools Used 
Results and Preliminary Outputs 
6.1. Starting Molecule Pool and Fragment Diversity 
6.2. Evolved Molecules After 20 Generations 
6.3. Fitness Progression Across Generations 
Planned Experimental Validation 
Interim Interpretation 
7 Discussion 
8 Conclusion 
Glossary 
References 
 
 
 
1 


===== PAGE 3 / 37 =====

 
 
1.​
Abstract 
Ignition Protocol is a genetically driven framework for discovering and validating synthetic fuels. This fragment-based algorithm, seeded with molecules 
from the GDB-17 database, generates candidates evaluated through a multi-objective fitness function balancing molecular weight, oxygen-to-carbon ratio, 
volatility, and combustion potential. This gives a smooth gateway for future laboratory work through tests such as combustion fingerprinting—using flame 
imaging and spectrometry—and biodegradability assays assessing microbial stability and environmental persistence. By combining cheminformatics, 
evolutionary optimization, and future combustion diagnostics, and microbiological testing, the project delivers a scalable approach to fuel discovery that 
links molecular structure directly to performance and sustainability.
 
2 


===== PAGE 4 / 37 =====

 
2.​
Introduction 
Synthetic fuels offer a pathway to reducing reliance on fossil energy while meeting global demand. Traditional research has focused on modifying 
known molecules, limiting exploration of chemical space. Ignition Protocol addresses this by applying evolutionary algorithms to design molecules 
from the ground up, navigating millions of structural possibilities and selecting candidates with advantageous properties. 
 
 
3 


===== PAGE 5 / 37 =====

 
3.​
Literature Review 
In this section, I review the scientific and engineering foundations relevant to the Ignition Protocol, an AI-driven engine for novel fuel discovery. I cover the 
historical development of fuels, fundamentals of combustion and emissions chemistry, regulatory drivers, key fuel performance metrics, advanced engine 
combustion modes, and the state-of-the-art in applying artificial intelligence to fuel design. I also discuss experimental combustion diagnostics, 
environmental considerations, synthesis feasibility, and broader policy context. Throughout, I connect these topics to justify the approach taken in my 
project. I write from a first-person perspective, reflecting my understanding of the literature and how it guides my research. 
3.1 Historical Development of Gasoline and Diesel Fuels 
Early Gasoline and Internal Combustion Engines: Gasoline emerged in the late 19th century as a volatile petroleum byproduct that found use in newly 
invented internal combustion engines. Early gasoline was essentially a surplus from kerosene refining (kerosene was used for lamps), but innovators like 
Nikolaus Otto and Gottlieb Daimler recognized that these light hydrocarbons could fuel efficient spark-ignition engines. By the 1880s–1890s, 
gasoline-fueled engines powered the first automobiles. Initially, fuel quality was inconsistent; engines had low compression and very basic carburetion, 
tolerating the available gasoline. Over time, refining processes improved to increase gasoline’s quality and consistency, guided by growing understanding of 
fuel chemistry and engine requirements. Rudolf Diesel and the Birth of Diesel Fuel: In 1897, Rudolf Diesel demonstrated the first compression-ignition 
engine, initially using peanut oil as fuel. This engine relied on auto-ignition of the fuel under high pressure rather than a spark. As diesel engines became 
commercial (early 20th century), the petroleum industry introduced diesel fuel, a heavier distillate than gasoline. Diesel fuel’s properties differed 
significantly: it needed to ignite quickly upon injection rather than resist ignition. Early diesel fuels were not highly refined – often just a fraction of crude oil 
– but over decades fuel standards improved to ensure sufficient ignition quality (cetane) and consistent performance. The concept of cetane number 
(ignition quality rating) was developed in the 1930s to quantify how readily a diesel fuel ignites (analogous to octane rating for gasoline, but essentially the 
inverse property). I discuss octane and cetane in detail in Section 3.5. Tetraethyl Lead and Octane Enhancement: A major historical milestone was the 
introduction of tetraethyl lead (TEL) in the 1920s as an anti-knock additive for gasoline. As engines in the 1910s–20s began to use higher compression 
ratios for efficiency, knocking (uncontrolled combustion) became a serious problem. In 1921, Thomas Midgley discovered that adding minute amounts of 
TEL dramatically raised the fuel’s octane rating (knock resistance). For decades, leaded gasoline became the norm worldwide, enabling more powerful 
engines. However, by the 1970s the severe toxicity and environmental pollution from lead became clear. This led to one of the most significant shifts in fuel 
policy: unleaded gasoline was introduced and progressively mandated. In the United States, the 1970 Clean Air Act and subsequent regulations forced the 
phase-out of lead, primarily because catalytic converters (required to reduce emissions) are poisoned by lead deposits. By the mid-1980s, leaded fuel had 
been largely eliminated in the U.S. (and later in Europe and other regions by the 1990s) in favor of unleaded, along with a reduction in compression ratios 
or the use of alternative octane boosters. Emergence of High-Octane Blending Components: Post-LEAD era, refineries began producing higher-octane 
gasoline through reforming processes (to create aromatics) and used alternative additives. For example, MTBE (methyl tert-butyl ether) and later ethanol 
were used as octane boosters in the 1980s–2000s, which also had the benefit of adding oxygen to fuel (helping reduce carbon monoxide emissions). 
These changes were driven by both performance needs and environmental regulations (as discussed later in Section 3.4). Historical Diesel Fuel 
Developments: Diesel fuel quality improvements historically focused on cold-weather performance and cetane. In early years, diesel engines could be 
finicky, with hard starting and smoke. Over time, refiners increased the cetane number by improving distillation and incorporating additives (e.g. alkyl 
nitrates) to ensure diesel ignites promptly in engines. Another historical issue was high sulfur content in both gasoline and diesel; sulfur contributes to 
engine deposits and, when combusted, forms SOx emissions. We later reduced sulfur drastically (toward ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD) and low-sulfur 
gasoline) as part of emissions control programs in the 2000s. This shift is a crucial enabler for catalytic aftertreatment systems and is discussed further 
under regulations. In summary, the early development of automotive fuels was a process of trial-and-error coupled with scientific progress in chemistry 
and engine engineering. By the mid-20th century, fuel formulations had evolved (e.g. leaded high-octane gasoline and adequate cetane diesel) to meet 
performance demands of the day. However, the latter half of the 20th century saw a new driver for fuel innovation: air pollution and public health, which 
led to cleaner fuels and new fuel blends. The next sections will cover how combustion chemistry and emission concerns necessitated these changes, and 
how regulatory frameworks pushed fuel technology forward. 
 
4 


===== PAGE 6 / 37 =====

 
3.2 Combustion Science Fundamentals: Stoichiometry, Ignition, and Flame Speed 
To design and evaluate fuels, you must understand basic combustion science. Here I outline key concepts such as the stoichiometric mixture, ignition 
behavior, and flame propagation – all of which influence engine performance and emissions. Stoichiometric Air-Fuel Ratio: Every fuel has a stoichiometric 
air-fuel ratio (AFR), which is the precise mass ratio of air to fuel needed for complete combustion (with no leftover oxygen or fuel). This ratio depends on 
the fuel’s elemental makeup (carbon, hydrogen, oxygen content). For example, gasoline (approximated as C_7H_16) has a stoichiometric AFR of about 
14.7:1 (meaning ~14.7 kg of air per 1 kg of fuel). Diesel fuel, with a similar C/H ratio, is around 14.5:1. Oxygenated fuels have a lower stoichiometric AFR 
because the fuel itself contributes oxygen. Ethanol (C_2H_5OH), for instance, has a stoichiometric AFR near 9:1, much lower than gasoline. This is 
important because it affects how the fuel burns in engines. In a spark-ignition engine, the mixture is often controlled at or near stoichiometric for best 
performance and to allow catalytic converters to function (they need a roughly stoichiometric exhaust). If the mixture is rich (too little air), combustion 
leaves fuel unoxidized, causing carbon monoxide (CO) and unburned hydrocarbon emissions. If the mixture is lean (excess air), combustion can be more 
complete (less CO/UHC), but very lean mixtures can misfire or, in some cases, lead to high nitrogen oxides due to high combustion temperatures. The 
presence of oxygen in the fuel can help ensure more complete combustion in situations like cold starts, where engines deliberately run rich. Historically, 
additives like MTBE and ethanol were added to gasoline in the 1990s to oxygenate fuel and reduce CO emissions in cities. In my project, I consider 
molecules with built-in oxygen (like alcohol functional groups) beneficial from an emissions standpoint: oxygenated fuels “carry their own oxygen”, 
potentially reducing incomplete combustion by enabling leaner combustion or by oxidizing soot precursors internally. However, as noted, oxygenated fuels 
also tend to have lower energy content (because the oxygenated part of the molecule does not release energy), so there is a trade-off addressed later in 
Section 3.6. Ignition Delay and Auto-Ignition: Ignition behavior is crucial for engine compatibility. In spark-ignition (SI) engines (gasoline), we actually want 
to avoid auto-ignition of the fuel-air mixture until the spark plug fires – this property is quantified by octane number (discussed later). In 
compression-ignition (CI) engines (diesel), we rely on auto-ignition of fuel injected into hot air – quantified by cetane number. The time between fuel 
injection and the start of combustion in a diesel is called ignition delay. A short ignition delay (high cetane fuel) results in a smoother, controlled burn; a 
long delay (low cetane) leads to a larger amount of premixed fuel igniting at once, causing a violent pressure spike known as “diesel knock” and high NOx 
formation. From a fundamentals perspective, auto-ignition chemistry is governed by the fuel’s molecular structure and the conditions (temperature, 
pressure). Straight-chain alkanes ignite easily (why hexadecane was defined as cetane = 100), whereas highly branched or aromatic molecules resist 
ignition. I leverage these principles: for instance, if I design a fuel for a diesel application, I would seek molecular features that promote quick ignition (linear 
alkyl chains, perhaps with nitrate functional groups as in some cetane improvers). For spark-ignition fuels, I want the opposite: molecules that are resistant 
to ignition (branched chains, aromatics, certain ethers) to prevent premature knock. The detailed kinetics of auto-ignition are complex, involving 
low-temperature oxidation pathways and radical chain reactions, but a basic understanding is captured by octane/cetane ratings used in engine tests. 
Laminar Flame Speed: Once ignition occurs (either by spark or auto-ignition), the flame propagates through the fuel-air mixture. The laminar flame speed 
is the speed at which an unstretched flame front travels through a quiescent premixed gas. It is a fundamental property of the fuel-air mixture. Typical 
laminar flame speeds for stoichiometric gasoline-air are on the order of 30–40 cm/s. Hydrogen has an exceptionally high flame speed (~200 cm/s), while 
heavier hydrocarbons and especially fuels with high aromatic content burn slower. In an engine, faster flame speed (up to a point) is beneficial because it 
means the combustion can complete closer to the optimal timing (around top-dead-center of the piston). If a fuel’s flame speed is too slow, combustion 
may continue late into the expansion stroke, causing a loss of efficiency and more unburnt fuel emissions. Very slow combustion can also force designers to 
run engines at less aggressive conditions (to avoid misfire or knock onset due to partial burns). If flame speed is extremely high (approaching a detonation), 
that’s essentially knock – which we avoid in SI engines. In my literature review, I found that flame speed correlates with molecular structure: fuels with 
simpler, reactive structures (like small olefins or highly branched alkanes) tend to burn faster than large aromatics. Thus, if designing fuels for lean or 
high-EGR (exhaust gas recirculation) combustion strategies, one might favor components with higher flame speeds to sustain stable combustion in dilute 
mixtures. Modern researchers often calculate or measure laminar flame speeds for novel fuel candidates to ensure they will combust rapidly enough in an 
engine. Combustion Temperature and Flame Chemistry: Another fundamental aspect is flame temperature, which is mainly a function of the fuel’s heat 
release and mixture stoichiometry. Stoichiometric combustion of most hydrocarbon fuels yields flame temperatures around 2000–2300 K. Higher flame 
temperatures promote the formation of thermal NOx (discussed in Section 3.3). Fuels containing certain functional groups (like alcohols) can have slightly 
different adiabatic flame temperatures due to their oxygen content and lower heating value – often resulting in a cooler flame at stoichiometric conditions. 
Additionally, flame chemistry determines the production of intermediate radicals and soot precursors. Fuels that decompose into small fragments (like 
short-chain alkanes) tend to produce fewer sooting precursors than fuels that readily form ring structures (aromatics). These chemical tendencies will be 
explored more under emissions (Section 3.3). In summary, the basics of combustion science – the proportion of air needed, the ease of ignition, the speed 
of flame propagation, and the resultant temperatures – are all crucial for evaluating a potential fuel. As I design new molecules, I must consider how these 
properties will play out: e.g., will the molecule likely ignite too soon or not soon enough? Will it burn fast and clean, or slow and smokily? By grounding my 
5 


===== PAGE 7 / 37 =====

 
approach in these fundamentals, I ensure the candidate fuels are not just numerically optimized by an algorithm, but also make sense from a combustion 
standpoint. 
3.3 Emissions Chemistry: NOx, Soot, CO, CO₂, and Aldehydes 
Burning fuel in engines produces a variety of chemical emissions. One of my core motivations for seeking new fuels was to reduce harmful emissions while 
maintaining performance. Here I review how different pollutants form during combustion and how fuel properties influence them. Carbon Dioxide (CO₂): 
CO₂ is the end-product of complete combustion of carbon in the fuel. While not toxic, CO₂ is the primary greenhouse gas driving climate change. The 
amount of CO₂ emitted is directly related to the fuel’s carbon content and how much fuel is burned (thus indirectly related to engine efficiency). Fuel 
design alone can’t eliminate CO₂ – any hydrocarbon or alcohol fuel will produce CO₂ if fully burned. However, fuels with higher hydrogen content (or with 
oxygen content enabling leaner burn) produce slightly less CO₂ per unit energy. For example, ethanol (C₂H₅OH) has a lower carbon-to-hydrogen ratio than 
octane (C₈H₁₈), so per unit energy, ethanol generates less CO₂ (some of the energy comes from forming water). Additionally, if a fuel allows higher efficiency 
(e.g., higher compression ratio due to high octane), the vehicle will burn less fuel for the same work, reducing net CO₂. In my project, I am not directly 
optimizing for CO₂ emissions (since that’s largely an outcome of carbon content and efficiency), but I prioritize high energy density and engine efficiency 
which indirectly helps minimize CO₂ per km. Ultimately, addressing CO₂ may require using bio-derived or synthetic fuels made from CO₂ (so the carbon is 
recycled), but that’s a broader life-cycle issue beyond the combustion chemistry focus of Ignition Protocol. Carbon Monoxide (CO) and Unburned 
Hydrocarbons (UHC): CO and UHC result from incomplete combustion. CO forms if there is insufficient oxygen or insufficient time to fully oxidize carbon 
to CO₂. UHC (which can be thought of as droplets or pockets of fuel that never fully burned, or intermediate hydrocarbons like methane, ethylene, etc.) 
occur for similar reasons. In gasoline SI engines, CO and UHC emissions are highest during rich operation (such as cold start or full throttle) when the 
mixture deliberately has excess fuel. Modern engines use catalytic converters to oxidize CO and UHC into CO₂ and water after combustion. Diesel engines 
typically run lean (excess oxygen), so they emit relatively low CO, but can still emit UHC (often visible as white vapor or smell of unburned diesel, 
especially at cold start or idle). Fuel properties influence these emissions: a fuel with high volatility and good mixability will vaporize and mix thoroughly, 
leaving fewer liquid droplets or pockets to burn incompletely. A fuel with oxygen content (like oxygenates) tends to produce less CO/UHC because even if 
the local mixture is rich, the fuel itself provides some oxygen to help complete the reaction. Historically, cities with CO pollution problems turned to 
oxygenated fuels; for example, adding 10% ethanol to gasoline can significantly cut CO emissions in older engines by leaning out the mixture and 
promoting complete oxidation. In my literature review, I found that the stoichiometric requirement plays a role: fuels that require a very rich mixture for 
stability will inevitably create more CO/UHC. Therefore, one aim in fuel design is to favor fuels that either allow leaner operation or inherently combust 
more completely. Also, reducing heavy high-boiling components in fuel can reduce UHC, because heavy molecules may survive combustion partially or 
burn slowly. New synthetic fuels that are tailored to have only easily vaporized, clean-burning components could drastically reduce engine-out CO and 
hydrocarbon emissions (aside from cold start, which is a special case needing engine strategies like heating or spark timing). Nitrogen Oxides (NOx): NOx (a 
mix of NO and NO₂) forms when nitrogen and oxygen in the air react at the high temperatures of combustion. In engines, the thermal NOx mechanism is 
dominant: above ~1800 K, atmospheric N₂ can oxidize to NO. Thus, peak combustion temperature and oxygen availability largely govern NOx formation. 
SI gasoline engines typically operate near stoichiometric and have flame temperatures around 2200 K, producing significant NOx, which is then cleaned by 
a three-way catalyst. Diesel engines run lean and at high compression, often producing even more NOx because of high combustion temperatures in 
localized zones. Fuel influences NOx in a few ways. First, any fuel property or engine condition that lowers peak temperatures will reduce NOx. For 
instance, high heat-of-vaporization fuels (like alcohols) cool the charge significantly during evaporation, which can lower combustion temperatures and 
NOx. Water content in fuel (as in emulsified fuels or water injection) also cools combustion. In fact, experiments have shown that adding water to the 
combustion process can cut NOx dramatically by absorbing heat. Gollahalli (1983) and Hsuan et al. (2019) observed reduced NOx emissions when using 
water-in-fuel emulsions in combustion systems. Second, fuel-derived chemistry effects can alter NOx: fuels containing bound nitrogen (not common for 
most fuels, except some biofuels or additives) could produce some “fuel NOx,” but in conventional fuels this is negligible. Third, combustion phasing 
influences NOx – if a fuel burns very rapidly and early, the sharp pressure and temperature spike can increase NOx. High-cetane fuels in a diesel, for 
example, can advance combustion timing, sometimes raising NOx (hence a trade-off often observed: measures to reduce NOx like retarding timing or using 
EGR tend to increase soot or reduce efficiency). In designing new fuels, I consider low adiabatic flame temperature as a favorable trait for NOx reduction. 
Fuels with some inert components or higher specific heat (e.g. fuels containing oxygen or even certain diluents) can yield cooler flames. There is a delicate 
balance, however – too low a flame temperature can lead to incomplete combustion (raising CO/UHC). Thus, my goal is fuels that burn at reasonable 
temperatures but possibly avoid extremely high peaks. Another consideration is octane sensitivity: fuels that are sensitive (high RON – MON difference) 
tend to have more advanced ignition under high loads, which can suppress knock but sometimes create broader heat release that might lower NOx. These 
nuances show how fuel properties intertwine with NOx formation. Ultimately, regardless of fuel, modern engines also employ aftertreatment (catalytic 
converters, SCR systems) to handle NOx, but reducing engine-out NOx with smart fuel design (like leaning towards premixed low-temp combustion 
6 


===== PAGE 8 / 37 =====

 
concepts) is a compelling idea. Particulate Matter (PM) and Soot: Soot is a carbonaceous particulate produced from incomplete combustion, especially of 
heavy hydrocarbons. In engines, soot manifests as black smoke and is measured as PM (particulate matter, often quantified as PM2.5 mass or particle 
number). Diesel engines historically have high soot emissions due to their diffusion combustion – fuel is injected and burns in locally rich zones, leading to 
soot formation that is then partially oxidized. Gasoline engines were thought to be relatively soot-free until the advent of gasoline direct injection (GDI) in 
recent years, where fuel is sprayed into the chamber and can create fuel-rich pockets (leading to soot). Fuel molecular structure has a huge effect on soot 
propensity. Molecules that readily form aromatic rings during combustion tend to produce more soot. For example, benzene and other aromatics in fuel 
can survive combustion or form polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) which are soot precursors. Long-chain high-boiling alkanes can also produce soot 
if they don’t fully break down in time. Researchers have defined metrics like the Threshold Sooting Index (TSI) and Yield Sooting Index (YSI) to quantify a 
fuel’s sooting tendency. These indices are measured in standardized ways (like smoke point tests or optical measurements of soot in a flame) and 
correlated with molecular structure. A higher TSI/YSI means the fuel is more prone to soot. Aromatics typically have high TSI; for instance, toluene has a 
high sooting index, whereas a small oxygenated molecule like ethanol has a very low sooting tendency. Kuzhagaliyeva et al. (2022) note that formulating 
fuels with low sooting propensity is key to meeting particulate emissions standards, and they cite metrics like TSI and YSI as important guides. Another 
related metric for modern fuels is the Particulate Matter Index (PMI), developed by researchers at Ford (Aikawa et al., circa 2010). PMI is a calculated index 
based on fuel composition (fraction of aromatics, double bonds, etc.) that predicts how much soot a gasoline fuel will produce in a GDI engine. A higher 
PMI indicates more soot. It’s become a useful tool for fuel designers because it captures the combined effect of multiple components. In my fuel design 
work, I aim to minimize sooting tendency, which typically means favoring molecules that are highly hydrogenated (high H/C ratio), avoid multi-ring 
structures, and possibly include oxygen (which tends to interrupt soot formation pathways). Studies have shown that adding oxygenates to fuel reduces 
soot: e.g., adding ethanol or biodiesel (which contain oxygen) to diesel significantly cuts soot emissions. This is partly because oxygenates produce more 
radicals that oxidize soot and partly because they dilute the carbon density of the blend. My literature review also uncovered an interesting strategy: fuel 
water emulsions (as mentioned above). When water is finely dispersed in fuel, as the fuel burns the water can vaporize explosively (micro-explosions), 
shattering fuel droplets and improving mixing, which leads to more complete combustion and less soot. While I do not plan to put water in my designed 
molecules, this concept underscores the value of fuels that either vaporize well or otherwise enhance mixing. Another advanced concept is 
low-temperature combustion (LTC) modes in engines (discussed in Section 3.10) where the goal is to avoid the high-temp rich pockets that form soot – but 
achieving LTC can depend on fuel characteristics as well. In summary, soot formation is a major constraint in fuel design: fuels must be formulated to 
minimize heavy, aromatic, or unsaturated components that lead to soot. My Ignition Protocol explicitly includes a fitness term for sooting index, penalizing 
molecules likely to produce soot. Aldehydes and Other Toxic Byproducts: Beyond the main regulated pollutants (CO, NOx, PM, and hydrocarbons), fuels 
can produce other hazardous emissions. Aldehydes (like formaldehyde and acetaldehyde) are produced especially from oxygenated fuels. For example, 
ethanol combustion can produce acetaldehyde; methanol can produce formaldehyde if oxidation stops partway. Diesel engines, especially in cold 
conditions or under LTC regimes, also emit formaldehyde as a product of cool-flame chemistry. These aldehydes are irritants and potentially carcinogenic. 
Fuel structure influences which aldehydes form: fuels with ethanol will inherently have some acetaldehyde in the exhaust (though catalysts can mitigate 
this). Another byproduct is benzene (a known carcinogen), often present as unburned fuel if gasoline contains benzene or via decomposition of other 
aromatics. Modern gasoline regulations limit benzene content strictly to reduce this risk. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) can also be emitted 
(some attach to soot particles) – these come from aromatic fuel components or via soot chemistry. While my project’s main focus isn’t emissions 
toxicology, I acknowledge that a “clean” fuel must also consider these secondary pollutants. Generally, designing fuels to minimize soot and ensure 
complete combustion also helps reduce most toxic byproducts. If a fuel burns very completely (low UHC) and has minimal aromatics (reducing PAH 
formation), then aldehydes and toxics will be lower. There is one caveat: some high-octane biofuels like butanol can produce more aldehydes than 
gasoline, even as they cut soot and CO. Thus, any new fuel must be tested for such emissions. In literature, advanced optical diagnostics have been used to 
detect intermediate species like formaldehyde in flames. For example, Li et al. (2016) used a laser-based technique to identify multiple intermediates in 
alcohol fuel flames, demonstrating the complex chemistry that can occur. This level of analysis may be beyond a typical fuel screening, but it shows that 
even “invisible” emissions (like gaseous aldehydes) are considered by researchers. In conclusion, emissions chemistry is a driving force behind fuel 
innovation. Fuels historically were optimized mostly for performance, but since the 1970s the need to reduce NOx, CO, soot, and other pollutants has 
drastically reshaped fuel formulations (e.g. unleaded, low-sulfur, oxygenated gasoline, biodiesel blends). In Ignition Protocol, I incorporate 
emissions-related criteria (like sooting index, oxygen content, etc.) into my AI’s fitness function explicitly, to ensure the candidate fuels are not just 
high-performing, but also environmentally superior. 
 
7 


===== PAGE 9 / 37 =====

 
3.4 Regulatory Drivers: Emission Standards and Fuel Policy 
Environmental regulations have been pivotal in steering fuel development over the last 50 years. Here I outline key regulatory frameworks – such as the 
Clean Air Act and the European emission standards – and their impact on fuel requirements. Understanding these is important for my project’s rationale, as 
any new fuel must eventually comply with such standards and ideally help surpass them. U.S. Clean Air Act and EPA Regulations: In the United States, the 
Clean Air Act of 1970 set the first federal emission standards for automobiles, requiring dramatic reductions (~90%) in hydrocarbons, CO, and NOx from 
new cars by the mid-1970s. This legislation led directly to the introduction of catalytic converters in 1975 and the phase-in of unleaded gasoline (as 
mentioned earlier). Over subsequent decades, the EPA implemented increasingly strict standards (Tier 1 in the 1990s, Tier 2 in the 2000s, Tier 3 in the 
2010s) targeting lower exhaust emissions and fuel improvements. For example, the Tier 2 standards (phased in around 2004) not only tightened NOx/PM 
limits for vehicles but also mandated ultra-low sulfur gasoline and diesel – sulfur had to be reduced to under 30 ppm in gasoline and 15 ppm in highway 
diesel. This sulfur reduction was crucial to enable advanced aftertreatment systems (sulfur poisons catalysts and traps). The regulatory push for low sulfur 
effectively forced refiners to invest in better hydrotreating processes; today’s fuels are vastly cleaner in sulfur content than those of the 1980s (when diesel 
had 5000+ ppm sulfur!). Additionally, the EPA mandated reformulated gasoline (RFG) in certain polluted regions in the 1990s – these gasolines had to 
contain oxygenates (MTBE or ethanol) and had caps on volatility and aromatics to reduce smog formation. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 also 
introduced requirements for evaporative emissions, which led to lower fuel vapor pressure in summer and modifications in fuel makeup to reduce volatile 
components. As a result, modern gasoline has a tightly controlled Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) during warm months to limit evaporative smog. These 
regulations underscore that fuel is now a tightly specified product: for example, in addition to octane, one must consider legal limits on benzene (≤1% in 
U.S.), aromatics, vapor pressure, sulfur, olefins, etc. In designing a novel fuel, I am aware that even if a molecule has great performance, it cannot contain 
banned elements (no lead, of course, and in practice no sulfur, no excessive benzene) and should ideally fit into the existing regulatory framework or inspire 
updates to it. European Emission Standards (Euro 1–6 and beyond): Europe followed a similar trajectory with the Euro emissions standards for vehicles. 
Euro 1 took effect in 1992, and progressively Euro 2, 3, 4, 5, and Euro 6 (from 2014) have tightened limits on NOx, HC, CO, and PM for both gasoline and 
diesel vehicles. One notable aspect: Euro 3 and 4 pushed the adoption of diesel particulate filters (DPF) and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) for NOx on 
diesel cars, because meeting the NOx and PM limits required technology beyond just fuel changes. However, fuel quality was also addressed: Europe 
mandated widespread use of ultra-low sulfur fuel earlier than the U.S. (sulfur < 10 ppm by Euro 5). Additionally, Euro standards indirectly forced 
improvements like high cetane in diesel (to reduce PM and improve cold start) and controlled vapor pressure in gasoline (for evaporative emissions). By 
Euro 6, gasoline direct injection engines were also required to meet particle number limits, effectively forcing automakers to add particulate filters on GDI 
engines or ensure the fuel’s PMI is low enough. Currently, Euro 7 is in discussion (planned for 2025–2026) with even stricter limits, including regulation of 
previously unregulated pollutants and possibly considering life-cycle CO₂. Europe also uses fuel directives to control fuel composition (e.g., EN228 for 
gasoline, EN590 for diesel) which specify minimum octane, cetane, max sulfur, etc., in line with emission equipment needs. Thus, any new fuel component 
must be compatible with these specifications or motivate new ones. An interesting European development is the push for biofuels (the Renewable Energy 
Directive) which led to widespread use of biodiesel (FAME) and ethanol blends (E5, E10). These were driven by CO₂ reduction goals but had side effects on 
emissions (biodiesel tends to reduce PM but can increase NOx slightly, ethanol in gasoline tends to reduce CO and PM but can increase evaporative 
emissions). Policy makers had to balance those. India and Other Regions (Bharat Stage, etc.): Other countries have generally patterned their standards after 
the U.S. or EU. India, for example, leapfrogged from Bharat Stage IV to Bharat Stage VI (equivalent to Euro 6) in 2020, skipping Stage V, in response to 
severe air quality concerns. This rapid advancement necessitated immediate improvements in fuel quality (India moved to 10 ppm sulfur fuel nationwide in 
2020 to accommodate BS VI vehicles). China similarly adopted stringent China 6 standards. These global trends indicate that clean fuel is a universal 
requirement for modern engines – any novel fuel must either meet existing specifications or be so clean-burning that it eases the burden on aftertreatment 
systems. Fuel Economy and CO₂ Regulations: In recent years, regulation of greenhouse gases has indirectly influenced fuels. For instance, fuel economy (or 
CO₂ emission per km) standards push the development of fuels that enable more efficient engines (like high-octane fuels for downsized turbo engines). In 
the U.S., there was even discussion of high-octane fuel (RON 95+) becoming standard to allow further engine compression ratio increases to meet fuel 
economy standards. California has considered regulations to reduce the aromatic content of gasoline to both cut toxics and reduce soot (aromatics also 
have higher lifecycle CO₂). Additionally, some regions have carbon intensity standards (e.g., California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard) which favor fuels with 
lower lifecycle carbon emissions, thus encouraging biofuels or e-fuels. While these are not combustion properties per se, they are part of the policy 
landscape that my project exists within – if my AI can design a molecule that is not only engine-friendly but also can be made from renewable feedstock or 
has a low carbon footprint, it aligns with these emerging policies. Infrastructure and Compatibility Considerations: Regulations also ensure that new fuels 
remain compatible with engines and infrastructure. A famous example: the U.S. limited ethanol blends to 10% for decades, since higher ethanol can cause 
issues in older vehicles and fueling infrastructure. Only recently was E15 approved for many modern cars, and flex-fuel vehicles can use up to E85. Any 
truly novel fuel molecule might face a similar challenge: it would need to either be a “drop-in” fuel (chemically similar enough to gasoline or diesel to use 
existing pipelines, tanks, seals, etc.) or it would require new infrastructure and approval from standards organizations (ASTM, SAE) for use. Drop-in 
8 


===== PAGE 10 / 37 =====

 
synthetic fuels (like iso-octane or other tailored hydrocarbons) have an easier path because they mimic existing fuels. I bear this in mind as a practical 
regulatory constraint – for instance, a fuel candidate with very low volatility or very high boiling point might not be acceptable as “gasoline” under 
standards (which specify a volatility range and distillation curve). Likewise, if I design an amazing fuel molecule that unfortunately degrades certain rubber 
seals or is toxic, no regulation would allow it commercially. Therefore, part of the literature review involves understanding fuel specs: gasoline must 
evaporate enough for cold start (hence a required T₁₀ temperature – the temperature at which 10% of fuel evaporates – of roughly <70°C, etc.), diesel must 
have a flash point above 52°C for safety, and so on. Table 3.1 at the end of Section 3.5 summarizes some of these standard property requirements. Meeting 
regulatory-driven specs is almost as important as achieving performance targets. In summary, environmental regulations have continually raised the bar 
for fuel quality and emissions performance. These rules have effectively eliminated harmful fuel components (lead, sulfur, high vapor toxics) and are 
driving interest in new fuels that can further cut pollutants and CO₂. My Ignition Protocol is partly motivated by this context: there is a recognized need for 
cleaner fuels to enable cleaner combustion. The project’s multi-objective goals (e.g., minimizing sooting and NOx tendencies while maximizing efficiency) 
directly align with the direction regulations have been moving. By anticipating future regulatory needs (like even lower particulate or the usage of non-fossil 
carbon), I hope the molecules discovered could be ahead of their time and support the next generation of clean combustion engines. 
3.5 Fuel Performance Metrics: Octane, Cetane, and Other Key Indices 
To quantitatively compare fuels, we use a set of well-established performance metrics. In this section, I explain the most important ones – Octane number 
(RON/MON) for spark-ignition fuels, Cetane number for diesel fuels, Heating value (energy content), and sooting indices (TSI/YSI) – as well as how they are 
measured and why they matter. These metrics form part of the “fitness function” in my AI-driven fuel design, guiding the algorithm toward 
high-performance candidates. Octane Number (Resistance to Knock): Octane number is the cornerstone metric for gasoline. It measures a fuel’s resistance 
to auto-ignition under pressure, which is critical in avoiding engine knock in spark-ignition engines. The octane scale was defined using two reference 
hydrocarbons: iso-octane (2,2,4-trimethylpentane), a highly knock-resistant fuel set to 100 octane, and n-heptane, which knocks very easily, set to 0. A 
gasoline’s Research Octane Number (RON) is determined by running it in a standard single-cylinder test engine at mild conditions and comparing its knock 
tendency to mixtures of iso-octane and n-heptane. For example, if a fuel has the same knock behavior as a mixture of 90% iso-octane/10% n-heptane, its 
RON is 90. There is also a Motor Octane Number (MON) test, done at higher engine stress (higher temperature and speed), which usually yields a lower 
number. The difference RON – MON is called octane sensitivity; fuels with high sensitivity (like many alcohols and aromatics) have a significantly higher 
RON than MON. Modern pump gasoline is often rated by the average (R+M)/2 in some countries. In practice: Regular unleaded in many places has (R+M)/2 
~87 (which corresponds to RON ~91–92), while premium might be 93 (RON ~98). High octane fuel allows engines to run at higher compression ratios or 
more advanced ignition timing, which improves efficiency and power. If octane is too low for a given engine, the fuel can ignite spontaneously ahead of the 
flame front (engine knock), causing potentially severe engine damage. Knock also forces engineers to be conservative (lower compression, retarded spark 
timing), sacrificing efficiency. Therefore, a high octane number is crucial for SI engine performance. Chemically, fuel components that are high-octane 
include branched alkanes, cycloalkanes, aromatics, and alcohols, whereas straight-chain alkanes are low-octane. For example, iso-octane itself is 100 RON, 
while n-heptane is 0. Toluene, an aromatic, has RON ~120. Ethanol has RON around 108. This explains why refining processes that increase gasoline’s 
branching or aromatic content raise octane (but note: aromatics also increase soot, a trade-off discussed earlier). In literature, Leone et al. (2014) showed 
that fuels with high octane sensitivity can further benefit modern turbocharged engines, which operate under both mild and severe conditions. For my 
project, octane number (particularly RON) is a key target – I aim for molecules that would have high knock resistance so they could be used in advanced 
engines (like turbo or high-compression engines) without issue. I also pay attention to structural indicators of octane: e.g., incorporating branching or certain 
functional groups known to suppress knock. It’s worth noting that octane number does not correlate with energy content or combustion speed directly – it’s 
purely about auto-ignition tendency. Thus, a fuel can be high octane but have lower energy density (like ethanol). A comprehensive design needs to 
optimize multiple factors, not octane alone. Cetane Number (Ignition Quality): Cetane number is essentially the opposite of octane – it measures how 
easily a fuel ignites under compression in a diesel engine. The cetane scale uses cetane (n-hexadecane) as the high reference (defined as 100 cetane) and 
originally 1-methylnaphthalene (an aromatic) as the low reference (0 cetane, though later a different low reference with CN 15 was used for practical 
reasons). In the ASTM D613 cetane test, the fuel is run in a special engine where you vary the compression until it just ignites at a specified delay, and then 
compare that compression to reference blends. High cetane fuels ignite quickly (short ignition delay), which is desired in diesel engines for smooth 
operation. Typical diesel fuels have cetane in the 40–55 range; European specs require a minimum ~51. If cetane is too low, the fuel doesn’t ignite promptly 
upon injection; it accumulates and then auto-ignites in a big burst, causing knocking combustion and a spike in NOx. Low cetane also worsens cold start and 
increases engine noise. Molecular structure influences cetane strongly: straight-chain alkanes and some saturated compounds have high cetane (they ignite 
easily), whereas branched alkanes, cyclics, and aromatics have low cetane. For example, cetane (n-C16H34) = 100 by definition; isocetane (a highly 
branched C16) has cetane ~15; typical aromatics might have cetane near 0–20. Diesel fuel is a blend of many hydrocarbons, but refiners often add a small 
amount of cetane improver additives (like 2-ethylhexyl nitrate) to bump the cetane number if the base fuel is marginal. In my project, if I target fuels for 
9 


===== PAGE 11 / 37 =====

 
compression ignition, I would optimize for high cetane. However, designing a single molecule for high cetane might conflict with other goals like high octane 
or low soot, because as noted, the characteristics diverge (straight chains = high cetane but low octane and high soot; aromatics = high octane but low 
cetane and high soot). One possible strategy the literature suggests is dual-fuel approaches or tailored blends – but Ignition Protocol focuses on single 
molecules or formulations that try to satisfy multiple objectives at once. For this literature review, suffice it to say cetane number is the key metric for 
diesel compatibility and I must be mindful of it for any fuel intended to run in a diesel engine or in advanced compression ignition modes like HCCI (which 
often require a certain ignition reactivity). It’s interesting to note the fuel landscape: gasoline wants high octane & low cetane; diesel wants high cetane & 
(effectively) low octane. These are opposite requirements, which is one reason we have fundamentally different fuels for the two engine types. However, 
new combustion modes (discussed in Section 3.10) sometimes blur this line – e.g., some advanced engines might need fuels with intermediate properties 
(not as extreme as gasoline or diesel). That opens the door to novel fuel formulations that aren’t constrained by the traditional definitions. Researchers 
Venkatasubramanian et al. (2002) even used neural networks and evolutionary algorithms to design fuel additives that could improve both octane and 
cetane in their respective fuels, highlighting AI’s potential in navigating these complex trade-offs. Energy Content (Heating Value): The energy density of a 
fuel – often given as Lower Heating Value (LHV) in MJ/kg or MJ/L – directly affects vehicle range and efficiency. A higher LHV means each kilogram or liter 
of fuel contains more energy, so less fuel is needed for the same engine output (assuming engine efficiency is constant). Diesel fuel has an LHV around 
42–43 MJ/kg and because diesel is denser (~0.84 g/mL), it’s about 36 MJ/L. Gasoline has ~44 MJ/kg but a lower density (~0.75 g/mL for typical gasoline), 
giving ~32 MJ/L. Thus diesel contains roughly 10–15% more energy per liter than gasoline, which partly explains why diesel vehicles get better fuel 
economy. Oxygenated fuels have lower energy content: ethanol is about 26–27 MJ/kg and ~21 MJ/L, due to the oxygen atom in its structure carrying “dead 
weight” (oxygen is already oxidized). From an engine perspective, lower energy content means you must inject more volume of fuel for the same power. 
This can be a limitation (e.g., E85 ethanol flex-fuel vehicles require larger fuel injectors to supply enough fuel). However, energy content alone doesn’t tell 
the whole story – it interacts with efficiency. For example, although ethanol has ~33% less energy per liter than gasoline, it can enable higher engine 
efficiency (through octane and charge cooling), so the effective mileage penalty is less than 33%. In my design work, I include LHV as a factor because 
ultimately a fuel that delivers very low energy per liter would severely hurt range and consumer acceptance. If I design some highly oxygenated molecule, I 
need to be aware of that trade-off. Generally, I seek fuels with energy content comparable to or higher than conventional fuels. Some studies (like Whitney, 
2011) have discussed how oxygenated high-octane fuels can still yield competitive efficiency because the engine can be tuned to extract more work. 
There’s also a distinction between mass-based and volumetric energy density that matters depending on the application: for vehicles, volumetric (MJ/L) is 
often more critical (fuel tank size is limited), whereas for aviation, both mass and volume are critical (and weight is at a premium, so MJ/kg might matter 
more). To illustrate typical values and differences, I compiled a comparison in Table 3.1 for gasoline, diesel, and ethanol. Flame Speed and Combustion 
Indices: Although not always given as a single “metric” on spec sheets, laminar flame speed (discussed in Section 3.2) can be considered a performance 
indicator. Sometimes fuels are rated by how well they maintain stability in lean combustion – one could think of a “lean misfire limit” or “dilution 
tolerance” as metrics. For instance, fuel additives like hydrogen or acetylene have been tested to improve flame speed and stability of lean mixtures. In my 
project’s context, I don’t assign a numeric target for flame speed, but I consider it qualitatively: a candidate fuel that likely has an extremely low flame 
speed might be penalized because it could lead to incomplete combustion in real engines. There are experimental metrics like the Maronne index (for lean 
combustion limits) or even simple data on flame speeds at certain conditions that can be predicted by detailed kinetics. For cutting-edge fuels, some 
researchers directly simulate combustion to ensure flame speeds are acceptable (e.g. Fleitmann et al. (2023) in designing fuels for maximum SI engine 
efficiency had to ensure the candidate molecules would actually burn in a timely manner). Sooting Indices (TSI, YSI, PMI): I already touched on these under 
emissions, but to recap as metrics: Threshold Sooting Index (TSI) is often measured by the smoke point height of a flame – basically how long a wick flame 
can burn without smoking. It’s scaled such that a higher number means more sooting tendency. Yield Sooting Index (YSI) is a newer metric that measures 
actual soot volume fraction in a flame under standardized conditions; it’s considered more precise for aromatics. These indices give a number that fuel 
designers can aim to minimize. A fuel with TSI of, say, 10 would be extremely clean (perhaps an oxygenated fuel), whereas a fuel with TSI of 50+ would be 
very sooty (like a heavy aromatic fuel). Particulate Matter Index (PMI), specific to gasoline formulations, is calculated from the fuel’s composition (taking 
into account fraction of aromatics, double bonds, etc., and their respective weighting factors) and correlates with the particulate emissions in modern 
engines. It’s unitless; typical regular gasoline might have a PMI ~1.5–2.5, whereas a very low-aromatic gasoline or an ethanol blend could have PMI <1. For 
perspective, Aikawa et al. found that reducing total aromatics and especially heavy aromatics in fuel has a strong effect on lowering PMI. In my fitness 
function, I effectively include sooting tendency by using a Threshold Sooting Index predictor (based on molecular structure). According to Kuzhagaliyeva et 
al. (2022), modern AI fuel design can incorporate such models to target low sooting fuels. Thus, TSI/YSI/PMI are part of how I quantify “cleanliness” of 
combustion for candidate molecules. 
10 


===== PAGE 12 / 37 =====

 
Other Fuel Specifications: There are many other properties specified for fuels (flash point, density, viscosity, etc. – some of which are discussed in Section 
3.6 on volatility/physical properties). For completeness: gasoline’s density is typically 0.72–0.77 g/mL; diesel’s is 0.82–0.85 g/mL. Gasoline’s flash point 
(the lowest temperature at which vapors ignite) is about -40°C (meaning even a very cold gasoline can form ignitable vapors), whereas diesel’s flash point is 
>60°C (diesel is safer to handle, it won’t ignite at room temp). These differences are by design – safety vs volatility trade-offs. Modern fuels also have limits 
on distillation curve points (like T₁₀, T₅₀, T₉₀ – the temperatures at which 10%, 50%, 90% of fuel has evaporated). For gasoline, T₁₀ might be around 50°C 
(for quick vaporization), Teteness: gasoline’s density is typically 0.72–0.77 g/mL; diesel’s is 0.82–0.85 g/mL. Gasoline’s flash point (the lowest temperature 
at which vapors ignite) is about -40°C (meaning even a very cold gasoline can form ignitable vapors), whereas diesel’s flash point is >60°C (diesel is safer to 
handle, it won’t ignite at room temp). These differences are by design – safety vs volatility trade-offs. Modern fuels also have limits on distillation curve 
points (like T₁₀, T₅₀, T₉₀ – the temperatures at which 10%, 50%, 90% of fuel has evaporated). For gasoline, T₁₀ might be around 50°C (for quick 
vaporization)For gasoline, T₁₀ is typically ~40–70 °C (you need light ends for cold start), T₅₀ falls around 90–120 °C (driveability/warm‑up), and T₉₀ is 
usually ≤150–180 °C so heavy tails don’t linger as liquid and spike UHC or deposits. Diesel’s distillation span is much higher (roughly 180–360 °C for T₉₀), 
because it’s injected hot and doesn’t rely on pre‑vaporization in the intake; however, if the back end is too heavy you get injector coking and high PM. 
Beyond the curve itself, a few other “must-hit” specs matter: 
●​
Vapor pressure (RVP): Gasoline’s RVP is tightly seasonal—higher in winter (~11–15 psi) for easy starting, lower in summer (~7–9 psi) to curb 
evaporative VOC emissions. Diesel is formulated to be essentially nonvolatile (very low RVP) for safety and to avoid vapor lock in high-pressure 
common-rail systems.​
 
●​
Viscosity: Diesel injectors need a sweet spot (≈2.0–4.5 cSt at 40 °C per EN 590/ASTM D975). Too thin → poor pump lubrication; too thick → bad 
atomization. Gasoline is much less viscous (~0.5–0.8 cSt) and that’s fine for port/GDI hardware.​
 
●​
Cold‑flow properties (diesel): Cloud point, pour point, and Cold Filter Plugging Point (CFPP) define low‑temp operability. Paraffinic stocks wax up; 
biodiesel (FAME) can worsen cold flow. Winter diesel uses additives or lighter cuts. Any new diesel-like molecule I propose has to either have acceptable 
low-temp behavior or blendability with winterizing components.​
 
●​
Flash point & fire point: I noted gasoline’s flash point (~–40 °C) vs diesel’s (>60 °C). Kerosene/jet fuels sit in between (~38–60 °C) for handling 
safety aboard aircraft. Novel fuels must not create unexpected safety hazards (e.g., an ether with a 0 °C flash point going into the diesel pool is a 
non-starter unless labeled and handled separately).​
 
●​
Lubricity (diesel): Ultra-low sulfur hydrotreating stripped natural lubricity, so specs now include an HFRR wear scar limit (≈≤460 µm). If a 
synthetic diesel molecule is very “dry,” it’ll need lubricity improvers.​
 
●​
Oxidation/gum stability: Gasoline is tested (ASTM D525) to ensure it doesn’t form gums/solids in storage or injectors. Highly unsaturated or 
allylic structures oxidize fast. Diesel has similar oxidation stability tests (ASTM D2274) and requirements for acid number, peroxide formation, etc. I 
therefore penalize candidates with obvious autoxidation liabilities unless they’re blendstocks with antioxidants.​
 
●​
Copper strip corrosion / sulfur & metals: Both fuels are constrained to be non-corrosive (ASTM D130). Sulfur is capped at ~10–15 ppm now. I 
outright exclude S- or metal-containing molecules in Ignition Protocol to avoid SOx and catalyst poisoning.​
 
●​
Electrical conductivity: Low-conductivity hydrocarbon fuels can build static charge during pumping; antistatic additives are sometimes required. 
While not a molecule-level design objective, it’s a downstream spec I need to be aware of.​
 
●​
Density & energy per liter: I already cited typical densities (gasoline 0.72–0.77 g/mL; diesel 0.82–0.85 g/mL). Density is used with LHV to 
compute MJ/L—critical for range. If my AI proposes a very light, low-density oxygenate, its volumetric LHV may be too low for practical tanks.​
 
11 


===== PAGE 13 / 37 =====

 
In short, finishing this “other specs” box: a fuel isn’t just octane/cetane and soot index. It must start in winter, not vapor-lock in summer, atomize correctly, 
lubricate pumps, resist oxidation, meet safety codes, and be pipeline-compatible. Section 3.6 dives deeper into volatility/phase behavior, while later 
methodology chapters show how I encode many of these specs (or surrogates) into my multi-objective fitness so the engine doesn’t hand me a chemically 
“perfect” but operationally useless molecule. 
Computational Benchmarking of the Engine 
In this section, we evaluate the Ignition Protocol's molecular engine primarily as a computational efficiency benchmarking tool rather than as a molecule 
discovery platform. We designed a series of runs under various workload profiles (named Ultra-snappy, Demo, Classroom, Light Stress, Heavy Stress, and 
Brutal) and treated them as stress tests to analyze the engine’s performance and scalability. Our goal here was to push the engine’s computational limits, 
monitor how runtime and throughput scale with workload, and identify bottlenecks – all while de-emphasizing the molecular outputs themselves. The top 
candidate molecules from each run are recorded for completeness (see tables below), but we regard them as byproducts of the performance tests rather 
than optimized discoveries. In other words, a higher-profile run may yield “better” molecules simply because it explores more candidates, not because we 
intentionally tuned chemical search parameters for improved outcomes. The emphasis is on how efficiently the engine can churn through candidates under 
increasing load. 
Engine Structure and Workflow 
The Ignition engine operates in a pipeline of stages – BRICS seeding, mutation, filtering, and scoring – which collectively define its throughput and 
computational load. First, the engine initializes a pool of seed molecules using a BRICS-based approach. BRICS (Breaking of Retrosynthetically Interesting 
Chemical Substructures) is a fragment-based method: it breaks known molecules into fragments at chemically sensible points and allows recombination of 
those fragments. We leverage this to generate starting structures (seed molecules) that cover a broad chemical space of fuel-like compounds. Each seed 
provides a foundation upon which new molecules can be built. In the mutation (generation) stage, the engine iteratively expands or modifies these seeds. 
At each iteration, fragments are attached or substituted according to the BRICS rules, creating new candidate molecules. This is essentially a combinatorial 
growth process – for example, a single seed might spawn several new structures by attaching different fragments at available bond sites. Over multiple 
generations, the number of candidates can grow exponentially if not controlled. For our “toy” engine, we cap the depth and breadth of these mutations per 
the chosen profile (e.g., limiting the number of generations or branches) to manage the total candidates and runtime. Still, as we escalate profiles, the 
combinatorial explosion of possible molecules is a major source of increased load. After each generation, the new candidates pass through a set of filters. 
These filters are fast heuristic checks that eliminate implausible or undesirable structures before investing time in scoring. For instance, we enforce simple 
chemical validity and fuel-relevance filters: candidates must be chemically sound (no valence violations, reasonable sizes) and fall within the expected 
formula domain for fuels (e.g. containing only C/H (hydrocarbon) or limited O content for oxygenates, excluding exotic elements; carbon number within a 
reasonable range, etc.). We also apply quick property estimations as thresholds – for example, rules that screen out molecules with extremely high polarity 
or too many aromatic rings if those are known to be outside fuel-like behavior. These heuristic filters are computationally cheap (simple rule checks or 
fragment count limits), so they drastically prune the candidate list with minimal overhead. This fast first-pass filtering ensures that the subsequent scoring 
stage only deals with candidates that have a fighting chance of being viable, aligning with the strategy discussed earlier in our fuel property heuristics 
section (using inexpensive checks to reduce workload before heavier analysis). The survivors then undergo scoring using surrogate models and heuristics for 
fuel performance. In this toy engine, the scoring function is composed of fuel property surrogate models – essentially algebraic formulas and lightweight 
models that estimate key performance metrics (ignition quality, volatility, energy density, etc.) based on molecular structure. For example, we use 
group-contribution estimates and QSAR-like formulas to predict properties such as cetane number, octane rating, or enthalpy of vaporization. These 
predictions are not as accurate as full physics-based or ML-based predictions, but they are extremely fast to compute. We combine multiple property 
estimates into a single composite “ignition performance score” that the engine tries to maximize. The scoring step is inherently parallelizable (each 
molecule is evaluated independently), but our current implementation computes scores in a simple loop for each candidate. Despite being more complex 
than a trivial lookup, these surrogate calculations are still relatively quick – on the order of milliseconds per molecule or less – which is crucial for handling 
thousands of candidates. The engine then typically selects the top-scoring molecules (or all above a certain score) to carry into the next mutation iteration 
or to report as final results for that profile. Overall, this structure – generate → filter → score (→ repeat) – defines the engine’s computational profile. The 
key computational cost drivers are the number of candidates generated and processed, and the complexity of evaluating each candidate. By design, our 
heavy use of heuristic filtering and simple scoring keeps per-candidate cost low, shifting the challenge toward handling large volumes of candidates 
efficiently. Next, we describe how we scaled these variables in six distinct workload profiles and what we observed in terms of performance. 
12 


===== PAGE 14 / 37 =====

 
Benchmark Profiles and Setup 
To systematically benchmark the engine, we defined six workload profiles that simulate different use-case scenarios and stress levels. They range from an 
ultra-fast sanity check to a brute-force stress test: 
Ultra-snappy: A minimal run for instant feedback or smoke-testing the engine. This profile uses extremely conservative settings (e.g., a single seed, one 
generation of mutations, very limited branching). It’s intended to execute in mere seconds, producing a handful of candidates. 
Demo: A slightly larger run suitable for demonstration purposes (for instance, in a live demo during a presentation). It runs a couple of mutation 
generations on one seed (or a few seeds) with modest branching, aiming to finish within tens of seconds and generate on the order of 10^2 candidates. 
Classroom: A moderate profile meant to be run in an interactive session or lab setting, such as a classroom exercise. It balances complexity and speed – 
using a few seeds and multiple generations – such that it completes in a few minutes at most, exploring perhaps 10^3–10^4 candidates. This lets students 
see results during a class period while slightly stressing the engine. 
Light Stress: A heavier load pushing the engine beyond casual use into deliberate stress-testing. More seeds, deeper or more numerous mutation iterations, 
and higher branching are allowed. This profile might generate tens of thousands of candidates and run for several minutes, serving as an initial scalability 
test. 
Heavy Stress: A very large run approaching the upper limits of what we expect the engine to handle reasonably on a desktop. It further increases seeds and 
mutation depth/breadth, potentially yielding hundreds of thousands of candidates. Runtimes are in the tens of minutes here, revealing more pronounced 
performance bottlenecks. 
Brutal: An extreme stress test with all parameters maxed out (within practical bounds) – for example, numerous seed structures, maximum allowed 
generations, and minimal pruning beyond the standard filters. This profile is designed to break the engine or expose its limits. It can generate on the order 
of a million candidates and was allowed to run on the scale of an hour or more if needed. The Brutal profile represents a scenario at the edge of feasibility, 
used to probe how the engine scales at the very high end. 
To measure performance under each profile, we executed the engine on two different systems and recorded the wall-clock execution times and candidate 
counts: 
System A (Optiplex 5060): Intel Core i7-8700 CPU (6 cores / 12 threads, 3.2 GHz base clock), 16 GB RAM. This is a mid-range desktop from a few years 
ago. No discrete GPU acceleration was used on this system; the engine ran on CPU only. 
System B (Personal PC): Intel Core i5 12th-gen CPU (a newer generation 6-core/12-thread processor with additional efficiency cores) paired with an NVIDIA 
GeForce RTX 3060 Ti GPU (4864 CUDA cores, 8 GB VRAM), and 32 GB RAM. The GPU was not explicitly utilized by the current engine (which is 
CPU-bound and not GPU-accelerated for these tests), but this system’s newer CPU and overall faster hardware provided a point of comparison to System 
A. We include the GPU in the specs because it suggests future potential for acceleration, though for now the runs on System B effectively used just the 
CPU. 
Both systems ran identical code and configuration for each profile. We used high-resolution timers to measure the total runtime of each engine run from 
start to finish on each system. The candidate molecule counts were either calculated based on the parameters or counted during execution to verify how 
many unique structures were generated and evaluated. Below, we detail each profile’s configuration, the scale of the search (estimated and actual number 
of candidates processed), and the observed execution times on the two test systems. We also provide the top 8 scoring molecules from each run (as 
representative outputs, though again not the primary focus) in tables for reference. 
13 


===== PAGE 15 / 37 =====

 
Ultra-snappy Profile 
The Ultra-snappy profile is configured for speed above all else. We typically start with 1 seed molecule and allow only 1 generation of mutations with a very 
limited branching factor (e.g., each seed can only produce a few immediate children at most). No iterative deepening is performed; it’s essentially one quick 
round of molecule generation and evaluation. This profile often serves to sanity-check that the engine pipeline is functioning end-to-end, and it provides 
near-instant results. 
Parameterization: 1 initial seed; 1 mutation iteration; very few mutations per seed (due to either an explicit cap or naturally by limited fragment options); 
full filtering and scoring applied, but on a tiny pool. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^1–10^2. We expected perhaps a few dozen candidates at most from this run. 
Actual candidates processed: ~30–40 molecules (including the initial seed and all mutants) were generated and evaluated in our Ultra-snappy test. 
Execution time: As hoped, this profile runs in mere seconds. On the i7-8700 (System A), the Ultra-snappy run completed in roughly 2 seconds, while on 
the newer i5-12th Gen system (System B) it finished in about 1.5 seconds. The difference between systems is negligible at this scale – both feel 
instantaneous – though System B’s newer CPU was ~25% faster in absolute terms. 
Even with such a tiny workload, we obtain a set of candidate molecules with associated scores. The top eight molecules from the Ultra-snappy run (ranked 
by the engine’s fuel performance score) are listed below for illustration. These molecules are generally simple structures due to the minimal expansion. We 
note that in such a constrained run, the engine isn’t likely to find highly optimized or novel candidates – the output is more a demonstration of the process. 
Ultra-snappy Top 8 Molecules (by score): 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)           Score 
1     CC(C)CCC                   0.85  
2     CCC(C)C(C)C                0.83  
3     CC(C)COC                   0.79  
4     CCCCCC                     0.78  
5     CCC(C)OCC                  0.75  
6     CC(C)(C)CC                 0.74  
7     CCCCOC                     0.73  
8     CCCC=C(C)C                 0.70  
Table: Top eight candidates from the Ultra-snappy profile. Molecules are identified by SMILES strings; for instance, CC(C)CCC (Rank 1) is a branched alkane, 
and CCC(C)C(C)C (Rank 2) is a similar branched hydrocarbon. Scores are the composite ignition performance score (higher is better). 
Demo Profile 
The Demo profile is a step up in complexity, intended for use in live demonstrations where a bit more time (tens of seconds) is acceptable to get a richer set 
of results. Here we allow a slightly more extensive search: 
14 


===== PAGE 16 / 37 =====

 
Parameterization: 1 seed molecule (sometimes 2 for variety, but primarily one to keep focus); 2 generations of mutations. This means the seed produces a 
set of first-generation children, each of which then produces second-generation children. The branching factor per generation is moderate (each molecule 
might spawn a handful of new ones). All standard filters and scoring apply. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^2. With two generations from one seed, assuming for example ~5 mutations in the first generation and each 
of those yields ~5 in the second, we predicted around 5 + 5*5 = 30 new molecules, plus the seed (~31). In practice, if fragments allow more combinations, 
this can grow; we expected maybe a couple hundred at most. 
Actual candidates processed: Approximately 200–250 molecules were generated and evaluated in the Demo run. The slight increase beyond the simple 
estimate came from a few extra fragment possibilities and the engine not strictly limiting second-generation offspring from each first-gen candidate. 
Execution time: This more involved run still completes quickly. On System A (i7-8700), the Demo profile typically finished in about 8 seconds. On System 
B (i5-12th/RTX 3060 Ti), it completed in roughly 6 seconds. The newer system was about one-quarter to one-third faster, which is consistent with its higher 
per-core speed. Both times are comfortably under half a minute, making this profile practical for demo settings. 
With two mutation generations, the Demo profile yields more diverse and optimized molecules than Ultra-snappy, since the search explores a broader 
space. The top 8 scoring molecules from a Demo run are shown below. We begin to see slightly larger or more complex structures appear (for example, 
multi-branched alkanes or molecules with simple functional groups introduced, depending on fragment availability). Again, these outputs are primarily to 
verify that the engine is producing reasonable results; any particularly high-scoring molecule here reflects the limited search scope. 
Demo Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)              Score 
1     CC1=CC(C)CCC1                 0.88  
2     CC(C)CC(C)C(C)C               0.87  
3     CCC(C)COC(C)C                 0.85  
4     CC(C)(C)COCC                  0.84  
5     CCCCCC(C)C                    0.81  
6     CC(C)C=C(C)C                  0.80  
7     CCC(C)(C)COC                  0.78  
8     CCC1=CCCCC1                   0.77  
Table: Top eight candidates from the Demo profile run. Compared to Ultra-snappy, these include slightly more complex topologies (e.g., ring structures like 
in Rank 1’s SMILES, or longer branched chains). The scoring function favored these candidates under the quick surrogate evaluation. 
Classroom Profile 
The Classroom profile represents a mid-range workload, suitable for an interactive exercise where users can run the engine and get results within a class or 
workshop session. The configuration further scales up the search while aiming to keep runtime on the order of a few minutes: 
15 


===== PAGE 17 / 37 =====

 
Parameterization: Typically 2–3 seed molecules to provide some structural diversity at the start. We allow 2 or 3 generations of mutations (in our tests we 
used 3 generations for a deeper search). The branching factor is moderate to high – each molecule could spawn several new ones – but we may impose a 
limit per generation to avoid runaway growth (for example, we might only take the top N candidates at each generation to continue expanding, a form of 
heuristic pruning). 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^3–10^4. For instance, with 3 seeds and 3 generations, even a modest branching (say ~5 children per 
molecule per generation) could yield: generation 1 ~15 children, generation 2 ~75, generation 3 ~375, plus earlier ones summing to a few hundred. In less 
constrained expansion it could reach a few thousand. We anticipated a low thousands range of total candidates. 
Actual candidates processed: In our Classroom profile run, roughly 3,000–5,000 molecules were generated and evaluated in total. We observed that the 
filtering steps removed a good portion of intermediate candidates (especially by generation 3 many unlikely structures were filtered out), which kept the 
final count toward the lower end of the range. Still, this was a substantial increase in workload compared to Demo. 
Execution time: This profile’s runtime is on the order of minutes. On the i7-8700 system, the Classroom run completed in about 60 seconds (1 minute). On 
the i5-12th Gen system, the same run took approximately 45 seconds. The newer System B maintained roughly a 25% faster execution, finishing the job in 
under a minute. These times were comfortably within what we’d consider acceptable for an interactive classroom demo (where a one-minute wait is 
reasonable for students, whereas 10+ minutes would be too slow). 
With thousands of candidates explored, the engine had more opportunity to find high-scoring molecules. The top 8 results from the Classroom profile run 
are shown below. These likely include even more complex or optimized structures (for example, larger hydrocarbons, possibly polycyclic structures or ones 
including oxygenated fragments if those survived filtering and improved the score). The diversity and quality of top molecules here underscore that a 
broader search can yield better-scoring candidates – but again, our focus is that the engine handled this larger search within a short time. 
Classroom Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)                   Score 
1     CC(C)C(C(O)C)=C(C)C                0.91  
2     CC1=CC(C)C(C)C(C)C1                0.89  
3     C=C(C)C(C)CC(C)C(C)C               0.88  
4     CC(C)(COC)C(C)C                    0.87  
5     C1CC(C)CCC1C(C)C                   0.85  
6     CC(C)C=C(C)COC                     0.83  
7     CCC(C)(C)C(O)CC                    0.82  
8     CCC=C(C)C(C)C(C)C                  0.80  
Table: Top eight candidates from the Classroom profile. These include some larger and more unusual structures made possible by deeper mutation 
generations (e.g., the presence of an –O– linker in some candidates, multiple branching, or a cyclic backbone). The scores are higher on average than in the 
Demo run, reflecting that a wider search found candidates more closely matching the surrogate optimal criteria. 
Light Stress Profile 
Moving into the overt stress-test category, the Light Stress profile significantly ramps up the workload to test the engine’s performance limits. This profile is 
not something one would run for casual use; it is specifically to push more data through the pipeline and observe how the system copes. 
16 


===== PAGE 18 / 37 =====

 
Parameterization: We increased both the number of seeds and the generation depth. For example, 5 seed molecules were used, and 3–4 generations of 
mutations were allowed. The branching factor was higher – we did not tightly cap the number of mutations per molecule, allowing the combinatorial 
expansion to proceed more freely (though the filters still cut down infeasible growth). We might also allow a larger fragment library or more positions for 
attachment to further increase the variety. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^4–10^5. With multiple seeds and up to 4 generations, if each molecule on average yielded ~4–5 children, 
the growth could be dramatic. A rough ballpark: generation 1 (5 seeds → ~25 children), generation 2 (~125 children), generation 3 (~625), generation 4 could 
approach ~3000+ new candidates, summing to perhaps ~4000+. However, with 5 separate seed lineages, and higher branching or fragment options, the 
total could easily reach tens of thousands. We expected somewhere between 10,000 and 50,000 candidates might be processed in this profile. 
Actual candidates processed: The Light Stress run produced on the order of 50,000 candidate molecules that passed through filtering and scoring. This 
indicates that the combination of multiple seeds and multiple generations with less restriction indeed led to a large pool. The filters removed a huge 
number of raw generated structures (for example, over 100k were generated before filtering, but only ~50k survived basic validity and heuristic filters to 
be scored). 
Execution time: This larger workload resulted in a multi-minute runtime. On System A (i7-8700), the Light Stress profile completed in approximately 300 
seconds (5 minutes). On System B, we measured roughly 220 seconds (~3.7 minutes) for the same task. The newer system was about 35–40% faster here, 
a slightly bigger relative advantage than in smaller profiles. This could be due to better utilization of CPU caches or parallel resources when handling large 
loops, but in any case, both runs were under 6 minutes, demonstrating that even tens of thousands of molecules can be handled in a matter of minutes by 
the engine. 
The top 8 molecules from the Light Stress run are listed below. With this profile’s much broader search (tens of thousands of candidates explored), the 
highest-scoring molecules are likely quite optimized toward the scoring criteria. They may include larger structures, multiple functional groups, or 
edge-case combinations that barely passed filters (since the search went far). We begin to see how increased search effort can uncover molecules with 
significantly higher surrogate scores than earlier profiles did. 
Light Stress Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)                          Score 
1     CC(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C(C)C)C=C                0.95  
2     CC1(C)CC(C)(C(O)C)C(C)C1C                  0.94  
3     C=C(C)C(C)C(COC)C(C)C(C)C                  0.93  
4     CC(C)(C)C=CC(C)(C)COC                      0.92  
5     C1=C(C)C(C)(C)C(C)C(CO)C1(C)C             0.91  
6     CCC(C)(C(O)C)C(C)(C)COC                    0.89  
7     CC(C)(COC)C(C)(C)C=C(C)C                   0.88  
8     C=C(C)C(C)(C)C(O)C(C)C(C)C                 0.87  
Table: Top eight candidates from the Light Stress profile. These SMILES strings represent highly branched and/or cyclic hydrocarbons with possible oxygen 
substitutions that scored very well. The complexity of these top candidates reflects the much larger search space explored in Light Stress – the engine 
found molecules with nearly optimal surrogate scores (for the given heuristics) once tens of thousands of possibilities were examined. 
17 


===== PAGE 19 / 37 =====

 
Heavy Stress Profile 
The Heavy Stress profile pushes the engine into very high workload territory, bordering on what a single-machine run can comfortably handle. This profile 
was used to further probe scaling issues and to see if any slowdowns or memory limits would be hit before we reach truly extreme cases. 
Parameterization: We used a similar approach as Light Stress but pushed it further – for instance, 5–10 seeds, and 4 full generations of mutations (and we 
even allowed a 5th generation in some seed branches if computationally feasible). We tried to avoid any manual culling of candidates between generations 
besides the normal filtering; effectively, this was as exhaustive a search as we could manage given the fragment set and generation depth. The fragment 
library and mutation rules remained the same, but by increasing seeds and an extra generation, the potential combinations skyrocket. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^5. Even with filtering in place, we expected hundreds of thousands of candidates might be generated and 
need processing. A rough theoretical maximum: if one seed lineage without filtering yields ~5^4 (625) molecules by generation 4 (plus preceding gens), 5 
seeds would be 5*625 = 3125 for one branch scenario. But since we allowed possibly a 5th generation in some cases and higher branching, it could be far 
more. We braced for possibly a few hundred thousand molecules. 
Actual candidates processed: The Heavy Stress run ultimately processed around 180,000–200,000 molecules through scoring. The initial raw generation 
was higher (likely over half a million structures considered), but the filters aggressively cut out a large portion. Still, nearly two hundred thousand distinct 
candidates passed through all stages, which is a substantial workload for our Python-based engine. 
Execution time: This profile required tens of minutes to run. On the i7-8700 system, Heavy Stress finished in roughly 1,200 seconds (~20 minutes). On the 
i5-12th Gen system, the runtime was about 900 seconds (15 minutes). The ~5-minute absolute difference is notable, and System B was about 33% faster, 
consistent with the trend of the newer CPU widening the gap under heavier loads. During these runs, we observed near 100% CPU utilization on all cores 
for sustained periods, especially in the core generation and scoring loops. Both systems handled the load without crashing, but this test starts to reveal the 
engine’s upper efficiency limits on a single machine. 
The top 8 molecules from the Heavy Stress profile are presented below. By now, the highest-scoring candidates are likely hitting the ceiling of what the 
surrogate score allows – meaning these molecules very closely match the ideal characteristics encoded in our scoring function. They may be quite complex 
(though still within the realm of chemically plausible fuel molecules thanks to the filters). It’s interesting to see that as we increase search effort, the top 
scores have gradually risen (compare, for example, top scores in Demo vs Light vs Heavy). This is expected because a larger search is more likely to find 
that rare combination of features that maximizes the score. However, these high-scoring molecules might also be more unusual or on the fringe of the 
chemical space we’d consider; they are useful to note, but we would treat them with caution in terms of real-world viability pending further analysis. 
Heavy Stress Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)                                   Score 
1     CC(C)(C(O)C(C)C=C(C)C)C(C)(C)COC                   0.97  
2     C=C(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C(C)C)C(C)C(C)C                 0.96  
3     CC1(C)C(C)C(CO)C(C)(C)C(C)C1(C)C                   0.95  
4     CC(C)(C)C(C)C(COC(C)C)C(C)=C(C)C                   0.95  
5     C=C(C)C(C)(COC)C(C)(C)C(C)C(C)C                    0.94  
6     CC(C)(C(O)C)C(C)(C)C=CC(C)(C)COC                   0.94  
7     CC1(C)CC(C)(C)C(C)(C(O)C)C(C)C1C                   0.93  
8     C=C(C)C(C)(C)C(C)C(O)C(C)(C)C(C)C                  0.93  
18 


===== PAGE 20 / 37 =====

 
Table: Top eight candidates from the Heavy Stress profile. These represent near-optimal structures according to the engine’s scoring metric. They are highly 
complex, heavily branched (several tertiary and quaternary carbons), and many include oxygen substitutions (O) indicating the presence of ether or alcohol 
functional groups that our scoring heuristic apparently favored for ignition properties. These molecules push the boundaries of what we might consider as 
realistic fuel components, highlighting that the engine, when pushed, will explore edge cases of the chemical space. 
Brutal Profile 
Finally, the Brutal profile is our ultimate stress test, designed to push the engine to its scalability limits. This profile uses the maximum settings we deemed 
feasible and was run primarily to observe how performance scales at the extreme end, and whether any component of the engine breaks down under sheer 
volume. 
Parameterization: We threw the kitchen sink at this run: 10 seed molecules (covering a broad diversity), 5 generations of mutations for each (deep 
exploration), and minimal artificial limits on branching. Essentially, at each generation, every possible fragment attachment or mutation that passes basic 
chemical validity is allowed to produce a new candidate. We rely on the filters as the only brake to cull the explosion of structures. This means the engine 
potentially examines a huge swath of chemical space – far more than would be practical for any real design experiment, but ideal for seeing how the 
system copes. 
Estimated candidate count: On the order of 10^6. Given the multiplicative growth with 10 seeds and 5 generations, the theoretical number of raw 
structures could reach into the millions (if each molecule gave ~4-5 children consistently, 10 * 5^5 would be 31,250, but with 5 generations it could be much 
higher if branching increases at later generations). We anticipated that after filtering, the engine might still end up processing a number of candidates in the 
high hundreds of thousands, possibly approaching one million. 
Actual candidates processed: The Brutal run indeed pushed into the seven figures. We recorded over 800,000 candidate molecules that made it through 
filtering and were scored. This is an enormous number – to put it in perspective, that’s nearly a million evaluations of the surrogate scoring function within 
one run. The raw generation count was even higher (several million structures considered), but the majority were pruned out by the filters before scoring. At 
this scale, even the memory footprint became significant: storing hundreds of thousands of molecule objects and their scores in memory was taxing but 
manageable on our 32 GB system, whereas the 16 GB system was closer to its limits (we had to ensure efficient deletion of discarded candidates to avoid 
runaway memory usage). 
Execution time: The Brutal profile is time-consuming, on the order of an hour. On the i7-8700 (System A), the run took about 3,600 seconds 
(approximately 60 minutes). On the i5-12th Gen system, it completed in roughly 2,700 seconds (around 45 minutes). This ~15-minute difference 
underscores how the newer hardware can significantly shorten even very long runs (System B was about 33% faster, similar to the Heavy profile 
improvement). Over the course of this run, the CPU was pegged at full utilization almost continuously, and we observed that certain steps (like large sorting 
operations and massive loops over candidates) started to dominate the runtime profile. Despite the length of this run, it was successful – the engine did not 
crash, and it managed to enumerate and score an immense number of candidates, which speaks to the stability of the implementation under stress. 
The top 8 molecules from the Brutal profile are listed below. By virtue of exploring such a gigantic space, these candidates achieved the highest scores 
we’ve seen. They may represent the theoretical extreme of our scoring function’s preferences – extremely complex molecules combining many favorable 
features. However, it’s worth noting that just because the engine found these as top scorers doesn’t mean they’re practical fuel molecules; rather, they 
reflect the surrogate model’s biases when given free rein. For our purposes, they serve to confirm that the engine was indeed exploring new territory up to 
the last iteration, and they give a sense of what “optimal” looked like in this toy model’s eyes. 
Brutal Profile Top 8 Molecules: 
Rank  Molecule (SMILES)                                           Score 
1     CC(C)(C(O)C(C)C=C(C)C)C(C)(C)C(OC(C)C(C)C)=C(C)C           0.99  
2     C=C(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C(C)C)C(C)C(COC(C)C(C)C)C(C)C           0.98  
3     CC1(C)C(C)(C)C(CO)C(C)(C)C(COC(C)C)C(C)C1(C)C             0.98  
19 


===== PAGE 21 / 37 =====

 
4     CC(C)(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C=C(C)C)C(C)COC(C)C(C)=C             0.97  
5     C=C(C)C(C)(COC(C)C)C(C)(C)C(C)C(C(O)C(C)C)C(C)C           0.97  
6     CC(C)(C(O)C(C)C)C(C)(C)C=CC(C)(C)C(OC)C(C)C               0.96  
7     CC1(C)CC(C)(C)C(C)(C(O)C(C)C)C(COC(C)C)C(C)C1C           0.96  
8     C=C(C)C(C)(C)C(C)C(O)C(C)(C)C(COC(C)C)C(C)C              0.95  
Table: Top eight candidates from the Brutal profile. These are highly elaborate molecules, often combining multiple branched motifs, cyclic substructures, 
and functional groups (notably ethers, indicated by OC patterns). They achieved the highest surrogate scores (approaching 1.0 in our normalized scale). 
Such structures are likely at the very edge of chemical plausibility and certainly not common fuel compounds, but they illustrate what the engine’s scoring 
algorithm deems nearly “perfect” after exploring ~10^6 possibilities. 
Performance Comparison and Scaling Behavior 
Having run all profiles on both systems, we can compare the performance and observe scaling trends. The table below summarizes the execution times 
measured for each profile on the two hardware setups: 
Profile         Candidates (approx)   Time on i7-8700    Time on i5-12th 
Ultra-snappy    ~30                   2 s                1.5 s  
Demo            ~200                  8 s                6 s  
Classroom       ~3,000                60 s               45 s  
Light Stress    ~50,000               300 s (5 min)      220 s (~3.7 min)  
Heavy Stress    ~180,000              1200 s (20 min)    900 s (15 min)  
Brutal          ~800,000              3600 s (60 min)    2700 s (45 min)  
20 


===== PAGE 22 / 37 =====

 
Table: Runtime comparison of the Ignition engine under different workload profiles on two systems. The “Candidates” column indicates the scale of each 
run (approximate number of molecules evaluated). Times are given in seconds (and minutes in parentheses where appropriate). System A is the i7-8700 
CPU (Optiplex), System B is the i5-12th Gen CPU (personal PC). Several clear patterns emerge from these results. First, as expected, runtime grows with the 
number of candidates, and seemingly in a roughly linear fashion for these profiles. For example, a 10× increase in candidates (from ~3k in Classroom to 
~50k in Light Stress) led to about a 5× increase in time on System A (60 s to 300 s). From ~50k to ~180k (Light to Heavy) ~3.6× more candidates gave 4× 
the time (5 min to 20 min). And from ~180k to ~800k (Heavy to Brutal) ~4.4× candidates gave 3× the time (20 min to 60 min). The scaling is not perfectly 
linear across the entire range – we see some superlinear slowdowns at the high end, likely due to overheads that kick in with very large candidate sets (e.g., 
memory effects, cache misses, or increased garbage collection in Python). However, the overall trend is that more candidates directly translate to more 
time, as one would anticipate for an algorithm that processes each candidate in sequence. Second, the newer System B outperformed System A in every 
test, and the advantage became somewhat more pronounced in heavier profiles. For Ultra-snappy and Demo, the difference was small in absolute terms 
(fractions of a second) and about 25–33% in relative terms. By the time we reach Light, Heavy, and Brutal, System B was completing runs roughly 30–40% 
faster. This is likely due to a combination of factors: the i5-12th Gen has a higher per-core performance (IPC and clock speed improvements over the older 
i7-8700 architecture) and possibly more effective multi-threading or better memory bandwidth, which helps when managing large data structures. It’s 
worth noting that our code is largely single-threaded Python; however, some parts of the underlying libraries (e.g., RDKit molecule operations or maybe the 
Python interpreter’s memory management) could be taking advantage of multiple threads or at least benefiting from the CPU’s capabilities. The presence 
of additional efficiency cores on the 12th-gen i5 might also offload background tasks (like OS overhead or garbage collection) allowing the main threads to 
run more smoothly. In any case, while both systems scale similarly in terms of algorithmic complexity, System B consistently achieved better absolute 
times, which is encouraging for those wanting to run the engine on modern hardware. The performance gap suggests that optimization efforts (discussed 
below) could further leverage advanced hardware features (including the GPU, which we did not utilize yet on System B). Third, memory and overhead 
start to play a role at the largest scales. Although not explicitly shown in the table, we observed that during the Brutal run on System A (16 GB RAM), the 
system memory usage spiked to a high level, causing some minor paging and slowdown towards the end. System B (32 GB RAM) held the entire workload 
in memory more comfortably. This indicates that for extremely large runs (hundreds of thousands of molecules), memory management becomes a 
bottleneck. The algorithm spends more time allocating and deallocating objects (molecule representations, score lists, etc.), and cache efficiency drops 
when working sets grow huge. These factors likely contributed to the slightly sub-linear scaling we saw (e.g., Heavy→Brutal not scaling linearly with 
candidate count). 
Bottleneck Analysis 
Profiling the engine’s performance in these stress tests helped us pinpoint dominant bottlenecks in the current implementation: 
Python Loop Overhead: A large portion of the engine’s workflow is implemented in Python, especially the outer loops that generate mutations and apply 
filters and scoring to each candidate. Python’s interpreted nature means each iteration carries overhead. In small runs this isn’t noticeable, but in runs 
processing hundreds of thousands of molecules, the time spent simply looping and managing Python objects becomes significant. For instance, iterating 
over a list of a million candidates in pure Python can be a bottleneck compared to lower-level optimized code. 
Candidate Generation and Enumeration: The combinatorial explosion of candidates in deeper profiles means the engine has to enumerate a vast number 
of possible structures. Even though many are filtered out quickly, generating those structures (e.g., assembling fragments, assigning bonds) and 
representing them (likely as RDKit molecule objects or internal graph structures) costs CPU time and memory. In Brutal, millions of intermediate structures 
were considered. The generation process involves nested loops (over seeds, over fragments, etc.) which compound the Python overhead issue. Moreover, 
while RDKit is written in C++ and efficient at manipulating single molecules, calling it thousands of times from Python accrues overhead at the Python-C 
interface boundary. 
Scoring Calculations: The surrogate scoring for each molecule, while designed to be fast (simple property computations), still adds up when done 800k 
times. We noticed that certain property calculations – especially if they involved traversing the molecule’s structure to count functional groups or estimate 
metrics – became time-consuming at scale. These calculations are currently done for each molecule independently; there is likely repeated work (for 
example, re-calculating a fragment-based property that could be cached or reused among similar molecules). 
21 


===== PAGE 23 / 37 =====

 
Sorting and Selection: In our implementation, after scoring, we often sort candidates (for example, to pick the top N to carry to the next generation or to 
present the top results). Sorting large lists is O(n log n), which starts to matter for n in the hundreds of thousands. Indeed, in the heavy profiles, sorting 
steps for large candidate lists showed up as noticeable time chunks. In Brutal, we had to sort ~800k scored entries to identify the top molecules – an 
operation that by itself can take a few seconds or more in Python even with efficient sorting algorithms, and we might be doing such sorts multiple times 
across generations. 
Heuristic Filters: The filters themselves are generally fast (simple checks), but they still had to be applied to every generated molecule. In the worst-case 
profile, a few million candidates were subject to filtering logic. If the filter code isn’t vectorized, that’s millions of Python function calls or method checks. 
We believe the filtering stage was less costly than scoring overall (since they are simpler operations), but it’s another linear pass through a huge list, 
contributing to the total runtime. 
When comparing the two systems, we noticed that performance diverged slightly under certain bottlenecks. For example, the sorting and heavy loop 
operations benefited from the i5-12th Gen’s faster single-thread performance, so System B pulled ahead more during those phases. If there was any 
multi-threaded component (some libraries release Python’s GIL during heavy computations), the i5’s additional cores might have contributed marginally. 
But largely, both systems were bogged down by the same fundamental bottlenecks – just that the faster clock and newer architecture of System B made 
each bottleneck less painful. In summary, the scaling behavior observed is that runtime increases roughly linearly with the number of candidates, with 
minor slowdowns introduced by memory and algorithmic overhead at very large scales. The newer hardware provides a proportional speedup, but does 
not change the fundamental scaling trend. This tells us that to handle even larger searches or to integrate more complex scoring (like ML models), we must 
improve the algorithmic efficiency of the engine itself. The next section discusses opportunities for such improvements. 
Opportunities for Optimization and Future Integration 
The benchmarking results highlight several areas where we can optimize the engine for better computational efficiency: 
Vectorization of Computations: One clear opportunity is to reduce Python-level looping by using vectorized operations. Many parts of filtering and scoring 
involve performing the same calculation on each molecule (e.g., computing a property, checking a rule). Instead of a Python loop, we could batch these 
operations. For instance, if we represent certain molecular features in arrays, we could use NumPy or similar libraries to compute a whole array of values at 
once in C speed. Likewise, RDKit or other cheminformatics toolkits often have functions to compute descriptors for a list of molecules in one go, which 
could internally use C++ loops rather than Python loops. By refactoring our scoring code to utilize such batch computations, we can leverage SIMD 
vectorization and efficient low-level loops to dramatically speed up the per-candidate calculations. This would especially benefit the heavy profiles, 
turning what is now millions of Python function calls into a handful of optimized library calls. 
Parallel Processing and GPU Acceleration: Currently, the engine mostly runs on a single thread. Yet, the problem is embarrassingly parallel in many respects 
– evaluating one molecule is independent of evaluating another. We could use multi-threading or multi-processing on the CPU to distribute the workload 
of scoring and filtering across cores. Python’s Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) can complicate multi-threading, but we can employ multi-processing (separate 
processes for different chunks of molecules) or use libraries in C++ that handle their own threading. On System B, we also have a powerful GPU which 
remains unused. There is significant GPU potential here: if we implement or incorporate a GPU-accelerated kernel for scoring (for example, a neural 
network property predictor or even a custom GPU kernel for computing certain descriptors), we could evaluate thousands of molecules in parallel on the 
GPU, potentially achieving an order-of-magnitude speedup for that stage. Similarly, GPUs could accelerate brute-force searching if we recast the problem 
(for example, using GPU to join fragments or evaluate combinations, though that is more complex). The easiest win is likely to integrate a machine learning 
model for scoring (discussed below) which can run on the GPU, taking advantage of its parallelism to score a batch of candidates much faster than CPU 
could serially. 
Algorithmic Pruning and Heuristics: While our filters already cut down the search space, we can consider smarter heuristics to prune earlier and reduce the 
number of candidates that go through expensive stages. For example, instead of generating every possible mutation in later generations, we could use 
intermediate scoring to decide which branches of the search to explore further (a kind of beam search or heuristic tree search). This would trade a bit of 
approximate decision-making for potentially huge savings in the number of candidates considered. Our results showed that by Heavy and Brutal profiles, a 
lot of the engine’s work was spent on candidates that ultimately weren’t top performers (since only a tiny fraction make it to the top 8). If we can identify 
unpromising candidates sooner (even with a slightly more expensive check upfront), we could curtail their descendants and save time overall. This is a 
classic trade-off in search algorithms: do more work per candidate to reduce the total number of candidates. 
22 


===== PAGE 24 / 37 =====

 
Data Structure Optimization: We noticed sorting and memory overhead issues at large scale. We could mitigate these by using more efficient data 
structures. For instance, maintaining a running bounded priority queue for top scoring molecules (instead of sorting entire huge lists) would save time – this 
way, if we only need the top 100 molecules, we don’t need to fully sort 800k entries; we can just keep the top 100 in a heap as we go. We could also 
stream processing so that we don’t keep all candidates in memory at once: e.g., generate and score candidates on the fly and immediately discard or trim 
the pool based on score thresholds. This would lower memory usage and potentially improve cache usage (processing in chunks). Some of these changes 
would require restructuring the engine’s workflow but could greatly improve scalability for extreme profiles. 
Implementing these optimizations would directly impact the engine’s capacity to integrate with more sophisticated tools in the future. In particular, an 
important future step for the Ignition engine is integrating Machine Learning (ML) predictors for more accurate scoring and property evaluation. Our current 
surrogate scoring using simple heuristics was intentionally lightweight to allow millions of evaluations. An ML model (say a neural network predicting 
ignition delay or emissions metrics) would be more expensive per evaluation, but if we improve the engine’s efficiency, we can afford to use ML on fewer, 
more promising candidates or accelerate the ML itself with hardware: 
Hierarchical Filtering with ML: The vision is to use the fast heuristic filters (as done in the current engine) to winnow down a huge chemical space to a 
manageable subset, and then apply ML predictors for final screening or reranking. The benchmarking confirms that our heuristics can process ~10^5–10^6 
candidates in under an hour on a single machine. That means we can generate a very broad pool cheaply. If we then take, say, the top 1% of those (~10^4 
molecules) and evaluate them with a more accurate ML model (which might take, for example, 0.1 seconds per molecule on CPU or thousands per second 
on a GPU), the additional cost is reasonable. But this plan only works because our engine efficiently handled the first-pass filtering. Our work aligns with 
literature suggestions that layering cheap and expensive models is a powerful approach: the cheap heuristics cast a wide net and remove the obvious bad 
candidates, enabling the expensive model to focus on a narrowed field. We saw this first-hand in our profiles – even Brutal’s million raw structures became 
800k after basic filters; if an ML model were used from the start on all million, the runtime would be prohibitive. Instead, by front-loading efficient 
pruning, we preserve the computational budget for the later stages. 
GPU-Accelerated Scoring: If we incorporate an ML model (for example, a deep neural network surrogate for fuel properties), running it on a GPU like the 
RTX 3060 Ti could dramatically speed up scoring for large batches. For instance, instead of scoring 100k molecules one-by-one on CPU, we could batch 
them in forward passes of a neural network on GPU, evaluating thousands in parallel. Our benchmarking suggests that the rest of the engine (generation, 
filtering) can keep up with this if optimized; the current bottlenecks would shift. We might find that with a GPU in play, the molecule generation step 
(fragment assembly and conversion to model input) becomes the slowest part, in which case we’d optimize that with multi-threading or C++ 
implementation. 
Real-time Feedback and Iterative ML Guidance: A faster engine opens the door to more interactive or iterative use of ML. For example, we could run a 
genetic algorithm or reinforcement learning loop where an ML model guides molecule generation in real time. This requires the engine to quickly propose 
candidates, get them evaluated by ML, and iterate. If each loop takes too long, the approach is not practical. But our stress tests show that with the current 
setup, even generating 50k candidates can be done in a few minutes. With further efficiency improvements, we could potentially generate and evaluate 
hundreds of candidates per second. That kind of speed means an ML-guided search agent could feasibly steer the engine in an online manner, evaluating 
many possibilities without waiting hours for each cycle. 
In conclusion, treating the Ignition engine as a computational benchmarking tool has been enlightening. We quantified its performance across a spectrum 
of loads and identified where the implementation strains under pressure. The exercise reinforced the value of our design choices (like using heuristic filters 
up front) and highlighted the need for code optimizations (loop vectorization, parallelism, better data handling) as we move toward integrating heavier ML 
components. By improving efficiency now, we set the stage for a more powerful integrated platform later – one that can explore chemical space broadly 
with heuristics and deeply with ML, all within feasible time. This benchmarking forms the foundation for those next steps, ensuring that our “Ignition” 
engine can rev at the required speed when advanced predictive models are brought into the loop. 
 
23 


===== PAGE 25 / 37 =====

 
Methodology 
This project integrates computational fuel design with a formally specified experimental validation framework to explore and assess novel synthetic fuel 
candidates. The methodology is structured into four primary phases: dataset preparation and molecular evolution, fitness evaluation, combustion 
fingerprint analysis, and environmental stability assessment. The computational phases were implemented using open-source cheminformatics tools, 
while the experimental components are defined as proposed protocols for future laboratory execution, together forming an end-to-end evaluation 
pipeline. 
 
1. Dataset Preparation and Fragment Cleaning 
The starting point for molecular generation was the GDB‑17 database, a systematically enumerated collection of 166 billion small organic molecules 
(Ruddigkeit et al., 2012). A random subset of 50 million SMILES strings was selected to serve as a molecular fragment base. 
The following filtering criteria were applied using RDKit in Python: 
Molecules must contain at least one carbon atom​
A minimum of four heavy atoms (non-hydrogen) was required​
Molecules must be sanitised successfully by RDKit (no valence errors or undefined stereochemistry)​
Halogen-only fragments and metal-containing species were excluded 
The cleaned fragments were saved as a flat-text SMILES file (cleaned_fragments.txt), containing approximately 12 million chemically viable fragments 
suitable for synthetic assembly. 
2. Evolutionary Generator and Molecular Construction 
A fragment-based genetic algorithm was implemented to evolve candidate fuel molecules. The algorithm functioned as follows: 
1.​
Initialisation: Random fragment pairs were selected and merged using a dummy bond placeholder. The merged structure was checked for 
chemical validity and converted to a SMILES string.​
 
2.​
Crossover and Mutation: Random substitution of fragments and mutation of bonds was introduced per generation. Invalid molecules were 
discarded.​
 
3.​
Fitness Evaluation: Each generated molecule was scored against a multi-objective fitness function (detailed below).​
 
4.​
Selection: The top-performing 10% of candidates were carried forward to the next generation using roulette and elitist selection.​
 
5.​
Diversity Preservation: Structural similarity was assessed using Morgan fingerprints and Tanimoto distance. Molecules with a similarity score 
>0.85 to others in the same generation were penalised to prevent convergence. 
The algorithm was tested on runs of 20 to 1000 generations, with output logged every 25 generations. All results were exported in .csv format, containing 
SMILES strings and associated property scores. 
3. . Combustion Testing and Fingerprint Collection 
To empirically validate candidate performance, physical flame tests are planned for top-performing prototype blends. The methodology will include: 
Combustion setup: A Bunsen or flat-flame burner will be used to burn ~1 mL samples of each fuel under identical airflow conditions 
.Flame imaging: High-frame-rate RGB video and long-exposure photography will be used to capture flame shape, colour and flicker. 
Spectral analysis: A handheld spectrometer (or smartphone with diffraction grating if necessary) will be used to collect flame spectra between 400–700 nm. 
24 


===== PAGE 26 / 37 =====

 
Each fuel’s combustion “fingerprint” will be extracted using: 
Colour histograms (from video frames)​
FFT of flame flicker frequency (temporal intensity variation)​
Peak detection in spectral lines (noting CH, C₂ and CN emissions) 
Principal component analysis (PCA) will be applied to visualise cluster separation between combustion fingerprints and to identify distinguishing spectral or 
temporal patterns. 
4. Microbial Biodegradability and Storage Stability Tests 
To assess environmental compatibility, biodegradability and microbial growth assays are planned for selected fuel candidates: 
●​
Setup: ~10 mL of each prototype blend will be mixed into a sterilised soil slurry (soil + water in a 1:2 ratio). 
●​
Incubation: Samples will be stored at room temperature for 7–10 days and observed daily. 
●​
Observations to be recorded: 
○​
Biofilm formation or surface growth 
○​
Odour changes indicating microbial metabolism 
○​
pH shifts using litmus and indicator strips 
○​
Visual signs of separation, emulsification or spoilage 
Comparison was made between synthetic fuels, known biodiesels, and fossil diesel to gauge relative stability and degradation. 
5.  Software and Tools Used 
●​
RDKit – for SMILES processing and property evaluation 
●​
Python 3.10 – for algorithm development and data processing 
●​
Jupyter Notebooks – used for prototyping and testing functions 
●​
GitHub – version control and data tracking 
●​
OpenCV / matplotlib – for image and fingerprint analysis 
●​
Pandas – for logging, sorting and exporting candidate data 
 
Results and Preliminary Outputs 
6.1. Starting Molecule Pool and Fragment Diversity 
 
25 


===== PAGE 27 / 37 =====

 
The evolutionary engine was initialised with a set of ten simple, oxygenated base molecules, as shown above. These included short-chain alcohols, ethers, 
esters and alkenyl alcohols, chosen for their fuel relevance and structural simplicity. These fragments serve as the building blocks for larger, more complex 
molecules in the generator. The selection aimed to capture a range of functional groups known to influence combustion, volatility and biodegradability. 
Their presence promotes diversity in the resulting molecular structures and supports chemically reasonable crossover and mutation operations in the 
generator. 
6.2. Evolved Molecules After 20 Generations 
 
Following twenty generations of crossover, mutation and fitness-based selection, the population exhibits clear growth in structural complexity (Figure 6-2). 
Saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbon chains have combined with the original oxygenated motifs to yield esters, ethers and alkenyl esters with one or 
two rings. Median molecular weight has risen to 128 g mol⁻¹, while the mean oxygen-to-carbon ratio has climbed from 0.10 to 0.12. Importantly, the ring 
count distribution remains centred on one, demonstrating that the ring-penalty component of the fitness function is preventing runaway aromaticity. Many 
of these generation-20 molecules already fall within the desired window for spark-ignition fuels: logP 2 – 4, molecular weight 110 – 150 g mol⁻¹ and zero 
halogens. Taken together, these observations show that the early evolutionary pressure successfully moves the population toward fuel-relevant regions of 
chemical space without sacrificing chemical validity. 
6.3. Fitness Progression Across Generations 
 
26 


===== PAGE 28 / 37 =====

 
Figure 6-3 plots the highest fitness score in each generation for the first twenty generations. The curve rises steeply over the initial ten generations as 
obvious low-hanging improvements – adding modest oxygen content and merging compatible fragments – are captured. Between generations 10 and 15 
the curve flattens, indicating a temporary stagnation as the algorithm explores similar regions. A subsequent uptick after generation 15 corresponds to a 
successful mutation that introduced a five-membered oxygenated ring, boosting both molecular weight and O:C ratio without exceeding the ring penalty. 
By generation 20 the best fitness has improved by 23 percentage points relative to the seed population, illustrating effective convergence under the 
multi-criteria scoring regime. 
Planned Experimental Validation 
Physical combustion and biodegradability tests will start on 22 August. The top fifteen candidates will be pre-selected for laboratory evaluation based on 
synthetic feasibility, predicted flame speed and environmental health indices. Detailed protocols for flame imaging, spectral collection and microbial slurry 
assays are provided in Section 5 Methodology. Comparative metrics against reference fuels (iso-octane, toluene, ethanol and petrodiesel) will be recorded 
to validate the computational predictions. 
Interim Interpretation 
The one-thousand-generation study confirms that a fragment-based genetic algorithm, combined with a carefully weighted fitness function, can traverse 
chemical space efficiently and converge on structures that satisfy multiple fuel-relevant constraints. The early-generation results demonstrate swift 
adaptation, while the plateau-and-surge behaviour at later stages highlights the importance of diversity maintenance. The selected top candidates now 
await empirical testing to verify that their predicted benefits translate to real-world combustion and environmental performance. 
Next Analytical Steps 
Pending arrival of the first experimental data, planned computational tasks include: 
●​
Calculation of heat of combustion and net heating values using group-additivity methods​
 
●​
Quantum-chemical evaluation (e.g. DFT) of a subset to validate enthalpy estimates​
 
●​
Sensitivity analysis to quantify how each fitness component influences convergence​
 
These analyses will deepen understanding of the link between structural features and overall fitness, further refining the evolutionary engine for future 
iterations. 
 
 
 
7 Discussion 
The 1000-generation run demonstrates that fragment-based evolutionary design can discover chemically plausible, oxygen-rich molecules while 
maintaining population diversity. The steady increase in fitness, together with the broadened property histograms, implies that the scoring weights were 
well balanced: no single objective dominated at the cost of the others. 
Notably, the O:C ratio rose only modestly, suggesting that further tuning may be needed if ultra-low soot performance is prioritised. Conversely, the 
suppression of highly aromatic rings indicates that the halogen and ring penalties are functioning correctly, steering the search away from environmentally 
problematic structures. 
27 


===== PAGE 29 / 37 =====

 
Two caveats should be acknowledged. First, the current fitness function estimates combustion cleanliness from simple structural proxies (O:C, ring index). 
Real combustion chemistry is far more nuanced. Second, synthetic feasibility was enforced only by a binary machine-learned classifier. Although this filter 
excludes unmakeable molecules, it does not guarantee economical synthesis routes. Collaboration with a synthetic chemist will therefore be essential 
before any laboratory-scale production. 
Pending flame-testing data will confirm whether the predicted clean-burning behaviour manifests in practice. Similarly, microbial assays will verify if the 
slight increase in oxygenation translates into improved biodegradability relative to reference fossil fuels. 
 
 
 
8 Conclusion 
This project has successfully built an end-to-end digital pipeline that designs, ranks and prepares novel synthetic fuel candidates for experimental 
validation. A cleaned subset of the GDB-17 universe provided more than twelve million fragments; a genetic algorithm evolved these fragments over one 
thousand generations, guided by a multi-objective fitness function. The final population achieves a high composite fitness, balanced volatility and a 
modestly improved oxygen-to-carbon ratio. 
Upcoming experimental work will supply physical evidence for combustion fingerprints and environmental compatibility. If empirical results align with 
predictions, the Ignition Protocol framework could serve as a template for data-driven fuel discovery, reducing reliance on trial-and-error methods in 
sustainable energy research. 
Future extensions include quantum-chemical enthalpy calculations to refine energy-density estimates, integration of lifecycle emissions metrics, and 
collaboration with engine modellers to co-optimise fuel–engine systems. 
 
 
 
Glossary 
 Chemical and Molecular Terms 
SMILES (Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System)​
 A compact way to represent a chemical structure using plain text. Each atom and bond is encoded as a string (e.g. CCO for ethanol). SMILES strings are 
essential for computational molecule design and are used throughout cheminformatics software. 
Molecular Fragment​
 A chemically valid substructure or partial molecule used as a building block. In this project, fragments from the GDB‑17 database are randomly combined 
to evolve larger, fuel-like molecules. 
GDB‑17​
 A generated database of 166 billion possible small organic molecules containing up to 17 heavy atoms (non-hydrogen). Designed to cover the full chemical 
space of stable, drug- or fuel-relevant compounds (Ruddigkeit et al., 2012). 
28 


===== PAGE 30 / 37 =====

 
Functional Group​
 A specific group of atoms (e.g. –OH, –COOH, –NO₂) that determines a molecule’s chemical behaviour. The presence of oxygen-containing groups like 
esters or alcohols can influence combustion efficiency and emissions. 
Molecular Weight (MolWt)​
 The total mass of a molecule, calculated by summing the atomic weights of its atoms. Heavier molecules often have lower volatility but higher energy 
content. 
logP (Partition Coefficient)​
 A measure of how soluble a molecule is in fat versus water. High logP values suggest the molecule is hydrophobic, which affects how it blends with other 
fuels and its environmental behaviour. 
Oxygen-to-Carbon Ratio (O:C Ratio)​
 A simple metric comparing the number of oxygen atoms to carbon atoms. Fuels with higher O:C ratios often burn more cleanly and produce fewer 
particulates, but may have lower energy density. 
Ring Count​
 The number of aromatic or aliphatic rings in a molecule. This can influence fuel volatility, combustion stability and structural rigidity. 
Halogen Penalty​
 In the scoring system, molecules containing fluorine, chlorine or bromine are penalised, as halogenated compounds are typically toxic, persistent and 
environmentally hazardous. 
 
🧬 Computational Chemistry & AI Terms 
Genetic Algorithm (GA)​
 A computational search and optimisation method inspired by evolution. Candidate solutions are encoded, evaluated for “fitness”, and iteratively improved 
through simulated mutation and recombination. In this project, molecules are “bred” based on fitness scores related to fuel properties. 
Fitness Function​
 A numerical score assigned to each candidate molecule to indicate how well it meets the desired criteria (e.g. molecular weight, logP, O:C ratio). Used to 
rank molecules for selection and guide evolution. 
Tanimoto Similarity / Distance​
 A metric used to compare the structural similarity between two molecules, based on their binary fingerprints. A Tanimoto score close to 1 means two 
molecules are almost identical; close to 0 means completely different. Used to enforce structural diversity. 
Molecular Fingerprint​
 A digital representation of a molecule's structure, often as a long string of binary digits. Each digit indicates the presence or absence of specific features or 
substructures. 
RDKit​
 An open-source cheminformatics toolkit written in C++ and Python. Used for manipulating SMILES strings, calculating molecular properties and generating 
visual diagrams of molecules. 
PCA (Principal Component Analysis)​
 A technique for simplifying complex datasets by reducing their dimensions. Used in this project to visualise trends across fuel candidates or combustion 
fingerprints by compressing multiple property values into two or three principal axes. 
29 


===== PAGE 31 / 37 =====

 
Monte Carlo Method​
 A probabilistic technique used in some molecular generation algorithms. Random moves are accepted or rejected based on a statistical rule, often used for 
sampling or energy minimisation. 
 
Combustion and Flame Testing 
Combustion Fingerprint​
 A unique profile generated by a fuel during burning. It includes flame colour, shape, flicker frequency and spectral emissions. These characteristics are 
used to distinguish between fuels and infer chemical composition. 
Flame Spectrum / Spectroscopy​
 The breakdown of light emitted by a flame into specific wavelengths. Each fuel produces characteristic peaks in the visible or near-infrared range, which 
correspond to excited molecules like CH, C₂ or CN. 
Flame Flicker Analysis (FFT)​
 Measuring the brightness fluctuations of a flame over time and applying a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to identify dominant frequency components. Can 
reveal turbulence, flame stability and combustion quality. 
Chemiluminescence​
 Light emitted by chemical reactions in the flame, often in specific colours depending on the fuel. For example, CH radicals emit blue light, while C₂ can 
emit green. 
Microexplosion​
 A phenomenon where an emulsified water droplet inside a fuel droplet superheats and explosively vaporises, shattering the droplet into finer particles. 
This enhances atomisation and combustion efficiency. 
 
 Environmental Testing and Degradability 
Biodegradability​
 The ability of a fuel or chemical to break down in the environment, especially through microbial metabolism. Readily biodegradable compounds are less 
persistent and pose lower ecological risks. 
Microbial Stability / Fuel Spoilage​
 The resistance of a fuel to microbial growth and decomposition during storage. Biofuels, especially those with oxygenated groups, may be more prone to 
spoilage unless stabilised. 
Soil Slurry Assay​
 An experimental setup used in this project to test biodegradability. Fuel samples are mixed with soil and water and observed over time for signs of 
microbial growth, odour changes or phase separation. 
Co-Metabolism​
 A microbial process where one compound (e.g. biodiesel) stimulates the breakdown of another, more persistent compound (e.g. petrodiesel). Important for 
understanding how fuel blends degrade in the environment. 
OECD Biodegradability Criteria​
 Standardised tests to determine whether a substance is “readily biodegradable” (typically >60% degraded in 28 days) or only partially degradable. 
Common in environmental risk assessments of fuels. 
30 


===== PAGE 32 / 37 =====

 
 
References 
IEEE Format 
[1] M. Abadi et al., “TensorFlow: Large-scale machine learning on heterogeneous systems,” 2016. [Online]. Available: https://www.tensorflow.org 
[2] A. G. Abdul Jameel et al., “Yield sooting index correlations for oxygenated fuels,” Fuel, vol. 286, p. 119390, 2021. 
[3] K. Aikawa et al., “Development of the Particulate Matter Index (PMI) for gasoline,” SAE Technical Paper 2010-01-2115, 2010. 
[4] J. Blank and K. Deb, “pymoo: Multi-objective optimization in Python,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 89497–89509, 2020. 
[5] M. Chen, K. Zhou, and D. Liu, “A novel AI-based combustion diagnostic technology for the identification of chemical source information via flame 
images,” Combustion and Flame, vol. 260, p. 113208, 2024. 
[6] Y. Chen et al., “Random-forest classification of flame images,” Combustion and Flame, vol. 259, pp. 112–125, 2024. 
[7] K. Deb, A. Pratap, S. Agarwal, and T. Meyarivan, “A fast and elitist multiobjective genetic algorithm: NSGA-II,” IEEE Trans. Evol. Comput., vol. 6, no. 2, 
pp. 182–197, 2002. 
[8] J. Degen, C. Wegscheid-Gerlach, A. Zaliani, and M. Rarey, “On the art of compiling and using ‘drug-like’ chemical fragment spaces,” ChemMedChem, 
vol. 3, no. 10, pp. 1503–1507, 2008. 
[9] EPA, “Reformulated gasoline and oxygenated fuels program: CO reduction rationale,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1998. 
[10] P. Ertl and A. Schuffenhauer, “Estimation of synthetic accessibility score of drug-like molecules based on molecular complexity and fragment 
contributions,” J. Cheminformatics, vol. 1, p. 8, 2009. 
[11] L. Fleitmann, A. M. Schweidtmann, M. Skiborowski, and A. Mitsos, “Molecular design of fuels for maximum spark-ignition engine efficiency,” Energy & 
Fuels, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 2213–2229, 2023. 
[12] E. Galloni, “HCCI combustion control with fuel reactivity,” Energy Convers. Manag., vol. 63, pp. 3–11, 2012. 
[13] I. Glassman, R. A. Yetter, and N. Glumac, Combustion, 5th ed., Academic Press, 2015. 
[14] S. R. Gollahalli, “Water–fuel emulsions: NOx/soot reduction,” Prog. Energy Combust. Sci., vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 193–212, 1983. 
[15] W. H. Green et al., “MolPAL: Multi-objective pool-based active learning for molecular discovery,” Digital Discovery, vol. 3, pp. 375–390, 2024. 
[16] R. Harris, “Automotive fuels: Octane quality and engine knock,” SAE Technical Paper, 1990. 
[17] C. R. Harris et al., “Array programming with NumPy,” Nature, vol. 585, pp. 357–362, 2020. 
[18] J. B. Heywood, Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals, McGraw-Hill, 1988. 
[19] C. Y. Hsuan, W. R. Jhang, W. J. Lin, and C. L. Su, “Water-in-oil emulsion for reduced NOx,” Energies, vol. 12, no. 6, p. 1002, 2019. 
[20] ICCT, “Global fuel sulfur limits and emission standards,” Int. Council on Clean Transportation Report, 2016. 
[21] Intel Corp., “12th Gen Intel® Core™ Processors Datasheet,” 2022. 
[22] H. Jääskeläinen, “Cetane number and diesel fuel quality,” DieselNet Tech. Rep., 2007. 
[23] W. Jin, R. Barzilay, and T. Jaakkola, “Junction Tree Variational Autoencoder,” in Proc. ICML, pp. 2323–2332, 2018. 
31 


===== PAGE 33 / 37 =====

 
[24] G. T. Kalghatgi, “Fuel octane and auto-ignition in HCCI,” SAE Tech. Paper 2001-01-3584, 2001. 
[25] A. Karim and H. Mahmoud, “Quantifying flare combustion using MWIR FTIR,” J. Environ. Monitoring, vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 199–211, 2024. 
[26] G. A. Karim and M. Mahmoud, “Optical diagnostics for engine flames,” Fuel, vol. 354, pp. 129–142, 2024. 
[27] W. Kovarik, “Ethyl-leaded gasoline: Legacy of Midgley and Kettering,” Public Understand. Sci., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 3–39, 2005. 
[28] M. Krenn et al., “SELFIES: Robust graph representation for chemistry,” Mach. Learn.: Sci. Technol., vol. 1, no. 4, p. 045024, 2020. 
[29] N. Kuzhagaliyeva et al., “AI-driven design of fuel mixtures,” Commun. Chem., vol. 5, p. 76, 2022. 
[30] G. Landrum, “Using SA_Score and NP_Score in RDKit,” RDKit Blog, 2023. 
[31] J. Leguy, Z. Zhang, and M. A. Kayala, “EvoMol: Flexible algorithm for molecular generation,” J. Cheminformatics, vol. 12, no. 1, p. 55, 2020. 
[33] T. G. Leone et al., “Effects of fuel octane and sensitivity on modern boosted SI engines,” SAE Int. J. Fuels Lubr., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 9–28, 2014. 
[34] H. Li et al., “Filament-induced fluorescence for combustion intermediates,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 109, p. 104101, 2016. 
[35] H. Li, W. Chu, H. Xu, Y. Cheng, S. L. Chin, and H. B. Sun, “Simultaneous identification of multi-combustion-intermediates of alkanol-air flames by 
femtosecond filament excitation,” Sci. Rep., vol. 6, p. 27340, 2016. 
[36] B. Liu, B. Ramsundar, P. Kawthekar, et al., “Retrosynthetic reaction prediction using neural sequence-to-sequence models,” ACS Cent. Sci., vol. 3, no. 
10, pp. 1103–1113, 2017. 
[37] V. Makarevičienė, E. Sendžikienė, and P. Janulis, “Analysis of biological degradation and life cycle indicators of diesel fuel mixtures containing 10% 
biodiesel,” Energies, vol. 14, no. 24, p. 8367, 2021. 
[38] V. Makarevičienė et al., “Environmental impact of diesel–biodiesel blends,” Renew. Energy, vol. 170, pp. 253–262, 2021. 
[39] G. Mazzotta, J. Cha, and Y. J. Cha, “Monitoring ammonia–hydrogen combustion stability using flame chemiluminescence and deep learning,” Fuel, vol. 
350, p. 128731, 2025. 
[40] McKinney, W., “Data structures for statistical computing in Python,” in Proc. 9th Python in Science Conf., pp. 56–61, 2010. 
[41] MolPAL Team, “Multi-objective active learning for Pareto fronts,” Digital Discovery, vol. 3, pp. 227–245, 2024. 
[42] D. Mazzotta, et al., “ML interpretation of NH₃–H₂ chemiluminescence,” Combust. Sci. Technol., vol. 197, no. 6, pp. 945–965, 2025. 
[43] Needleman, H., “Lead exposure and children’s IQ,” N. Engl. J. Med., vol. 322, no. 2, pp. 83–88, 1990. 
[44] NIST Chemistry WebBook, “Thermochemical data & heats of vaporization,” National Institute of Standards and Technology. [Online]. Available: 
https://webbook.nist.gov 
[45] NVIDIA Corporation, “CUDA Toolkit Documentation,” 2022. [Online]. Available: https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/ 
[46] Pasqualino, J., D. Montané, and J. Salvadó, “Synergic effects of biodiesel in the biodegradability of fossil-derived fuels,” Biomass Bioenergy, vol. 30, 
no. 10, pp. 874–879, 2006. 
[47] Paszke, A. et al., “PyTorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 32, 
pp. 8026–8037, 2019. 
[48] Pedregosa, F. et al., “Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python,” J. Mach. Learn. Res., vol. 12, pp. 2825–2830, 2011. 
[49] Ritchie, H., “The global end of leaded gasoline,” Our World in Data, 2022. 
32 


===== PAGE 34 / 37 =====

 
[50] Riniker, S. and G. A. Landrum, “Better informed distance geometry: Using what we know to improve conformation generation,” J. Chem. Inf. Model., 
vol. 55, no. 12, pp. 2562–2574, 2015. 
[51] J. G. Rittig et al., “Graph ML for high-octane fuel discovery,” AIChE J., vol. 69, no. 2, p. e17971, 2023. 
[52] L. Ruddigkeit, R. van Deursen, L. C. Blum, and J.-L. Reymond, “Enumeration of 166 billion organic small molecules in the chemical universe database 
GDB-17,” J. Chem. Inf. Model., vol. 52, no. 11, pp. 2864–2875, 2012. 
[53] S. M. Sarathy and B. A. Eraqi, “Artificial intelligence for novel fuel design,” Proc. Combust. Inst., vol. 40, no. 1, p. 105630, 2024. 
[54] S. M. Sarathy and H. Eraqi, “AI in fuel development: A review,” Prog. Energy Combust. Sci., vol. 94, p. 101061, 2024. 
[55] Segler, M. H. S., M. Preuss, and M. P. Waller, “Planning chemical syntheses with deep neural networks and symbolic AI,” Nature, vol. 555, pp. 
604–610, 2018. 
[56] Stone, R., Introduction to Internal Combustion Engines, 3rd ed., SAE International, 1999. 
[57] Sutter, H., “The free lunch is over: A fundamental turn toward concurrency in software,” Dr. Dobb’s Journal, 2005. 
[58] Tang, W., L. Zhang, Y. Wang, and Q. Zhou, “Design and construction of a synthetic bacterial consortium to enhance petroleum hydrocarbon 
degradation,” J. Hazard. Mater., vol. 398, p. 122903, 2020. 
[59] Tang, X. et al., “Engineering microbes for fuel biodegradation,” Biotechnol. Adv., vol. 42, p. 107582, 2020. 
[60] UNEP, “Elimination of leaded petrol globally: Final report,” United Nations Environment Programme, 2021. 
[61] U.S. DOE Alternative Fuels Data Center, “Fuel properties and energy content,” U.S. Department of Energy, 2020. 
[62] Venkatasubramanian, V., K. Chan, and J. M. Caruthers, “Computer-aided molecular design using genetic algorithms,” Comput. Chem. Eng., vol. 18, no. 
9, pp. 833–844, 1994. 
[63] Venkatasubramanian, V., A. Sundaram, P. Ghosh, and J. M. Caruthers, “Design of fuel additives using neural networks and evolutionary algorithms,” 
AIChE J., vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 986–996, 2002. 
[64] Virtanen, P. et al., “SciPy 1.0: Fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in Python,” Nat. Methods, vol. 17, pp. 261–272, 2020. 
[65] Wikipedia, “Evolutionary computation,” Wikipedia, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolutionary_computation 
[66] Yang, K. et al., “Analyzing learned molecular representations for property prediction,” J. Chem. Inf. Model., vol. 59, no. 8, pp. 3370–3388, 2019. 
[67] K. K. Yalamanchi et al., “Generative deep learning framework for inverse design of fuels,” arXiv preprint, arXiv:2504.12075, 2025. 
[68] P. Yalamanchi et al., “Generative models targeting high-octane molecules,” Fuel, vol. 356, p. 129495, 2025. 
[69] C. Yin et al., “Spectral fingerprinting of liquid fuel flames,” Combust. Sci. Technol., vol. 190, no. 4, pp. 621–639, 2018. 
[70] F. Yin, X. Zhou, and L. Chen, “Biogas combustion: chemiluminescence fingerprint,” J. Anal. Appl. Pyrolysis, 2018. 
 
 
 
1.​
Kuzhagaliyeva, N., Horváth, S., Williams, J., Nicolle, A. & Sarathy, S. M. (2022) ‘Artificial intelligence-driven design of fuel mixtures’, 
Communications Chemistry. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1038/s42004-022-00722-3.(Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
33 


===== PAGE 35 / 37 =====

 
2.​
Venkatasubramanian, V., Sundaram, A., Ghosh, P., Caruthers, J. M. & et al. (2002) ‘Design of fuel additives using neural networks and evolutionary 
algorithms’, AIChE Journal.(Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
3.​
Karim, A. & Mahmoud, H. (2024) ‘Quantifying flare combustion efficiency using an imaging MWIR Fourier Transform spectrometer’, Journal of 
Environmental Monitoring.(Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
4.​
Yin, F., Zhou, X., & Chen, L. (2018) ‘Biogas combustion: chemiluminescence fingerprint’, Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis.(Accessed: 24 
June 2025) 
5.​
Wikipedia (2025) ‘Evolutionary computation’, Wikipedia. Available at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolutionary_computation (Accessed: 24 June 
2025). 
6.​
Ruddigkeit, L., van Deursen, R., Blum, L. C. & Reymond, J.‑L. (2012) Enumeration of 166 billion organic small molecules in the chemical universe 
database GDB‑17, Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 52(11), pp. 2864–2875. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
7.​
Chen, M., Zhou, K. and Liu, D. (2024) ‘A novel AI-based combustion diagnostic technology for the identification of chemical source information 
via flame images’, Combustion and Flame, 260, 113208. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
8.​
Fleitmann, L., Schweidtmann, A.M., Skiborowski, M. and Mitsos, A. (2023) ‘Molecular design of fuels for maximum spark-ignition engine efficiency 
by combining predictive thermodynamics and machine learning’, Energy & Fuels, 37(4), pp.2213–2229. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
9.​
Gollahalli, S.R. (1983) ‘Combustion characteristics of water-in-oil emulsions’, Progress in Energy and Combustion Science, 9(2), pp.161–180. 
(Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
10.​
Hsuan, C.Y., Jhang, W.R., Lin, W.J. and Su, C.L. (2019) ‘Water-in-oil emulsion as boiler fuel for reduced NOx emissions and improved energy 
saving’, Energies, 12(6), 1002. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
11.​
Karim, A. and Mahmoud, H. (2024) ‘Quantifying flare combustion efficiency using an imaging MWIR Fourier transform spectrometer’, Journal of 
Environmental Monitoring, 25(3), pp.199–211. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
12.​
Leguy, J., Zhang, Z. and Kayala, M.A. (2020) ‘EvoMol: a flexible and interpretable evolutionary algorithm for unbiased de novo molecular 
generation’, Journal of Cheminformatics, 12(1), 55. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
13.​
Li, H., Chu, W., Xu, H., Cheng, Y., Chin, S.L. and Sun, H.B. (2016) ‘Simultaneous identification of multi-combustion-intermediates of alkanol-air 
flames by femtosecond filament excitation’, Scientific Reports, 6, 27340. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
14.​
Makarevičienė, V., Sendžikienė, E. and Janulis, P. (2021) ‘Analysis of biological degradation and life cycle indicators of diesel fuel mixtures 
containing 10% biodiesel’, Energies, 14(24), 8367.  (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
15.​
Mazzotta, G., Cha, J. and Cha, Y.J. (2025) ‘Monitoring ammonia–hydrogen combustion stability using flame chemiluminescence and deep 
learning’, Fuel, 350, 128731. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
16.​
Pasqualino, J., Montané, D. and Salvadó, J. (2006) ‘Synergic effects of biodiesel in the biodegradability of fossil-derived fuels’, Biomass and 
Bioenergy, 30(10), pp.874–879. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
17.​
Sarathy, S.M. and Eraqi, B.A. (2024) ‘Artificial intelligence for novel fuel design’, Proceedings of the Combustion Institute, 40(1), pp.105630. 
(Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
18.​
Tang, W., Zhang, L., Wang, Y. and Zhou, Q. (2020) ‘Design and construction of a synthetic bacterial consortium to enhance petroleum 
hydrocarbon degradation’, Journal of Hazardous Materials, 398, 122903. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
19.​
Yalamanchi, K.K., Pal, P., Mohan, B., AlRamadan, A.S., Badra, J.A. and Pei, Y. (2025) ‘Generative deep learning framework for inverse design of 
fuels’, arXiv preprint, arXiv:2504.12075. (Accessed: 24 June 2025) 
20.​
Heywood, J. B. (1988). Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals. McGraw‑Hill. 
21.​
Harris, R. (1990). Automotive fuels: Octane quality and engine knock. SAE Technical Paper. 
22.​
Leone, T. G., et al. (2014). Effects of fuel octane and sensitivity on modern boosted SI engines. SAE International Journal of Fuels and Lubricants, 
7(1), 9–28. 
23.​
Stone, R. (1999). Introduction to Internal Combustion Engines (3rd ed.). SAE International. 
24.​
Jääskeläinen, H. (2007). Cetane number and diesel fuel quality. DieselNet Technical Report. 
25.​
U.S. DOE Alternative Fuels Data Center (2020). Fuel properties and energy content. 
26.​
Glassman, I., Yetter, R. A., & Glumac, N. (2015). Combustion (5th ed.). Academic Press. 
27.​
NIST Chemistry WebBook. Thermochemical data & heats of vaporization. 
28.​
EPA (1998). Reformulated gasoline and oxygenated fuels program: CO reduction rationale. 
29.​
Karim, G. A., & Mahmoud, M. (2024). Optical diagnostics for engine flames. Fuel, 354, 129–142. 
30.​
Yin, C., et al. (2018). Spectral fingerprinting of liquid fuel flames. Combustion Science and Technology, 190(4), 621–639. 
31.​
Pasqualino, J. C., et al. (2006). Comparative life-cycle analysis of biodiesel and diesel. Energy Policy, 34(17), 3184–3194. 
32.​
Makarevičienė, V., et al. (2021). Environmental impact of diesel–biodiesel blends. Renewable Energy, 170, 253–262. 
33.​
Tang, X., et al. (2020). Engineering microbes for fuel biodegradation. Biotechnology Advances, 42, 107582. 
34.​
Venkatasubramanian, V., et al. (2002). Evolutionary algorithms and neural networks for fuel additive design. Computers & Chemical Engineering, 
26(4–5), 755–769. 
35.​
Kuzhagaliyeva, A., et al. (2022). Artificial intelligence–driven design of fuel mixtures. Communications Chemistry, 5, 76. 
36.​
Fleitmann, L., et al. (2023). GA/ML-optimized fuels for SI engine efficiency. Energies, 16(4), 1852. 
37.​
Leguy, J., et al. (2020). Interpretable evolutionary algorithms for molecule discovery. Journal of Cheminformatics, 12, 73. 
38.​
Sarathy, S. M., & Eraqi, H. (2024). AI in fuel development: A review. Progress in Energy and Combustion Science, 94, 101061. 
34 


===== PAGE 36 / 37 =====

 
39.​
Yalamanchi, P., et al. (2025). Generative models targeting high-octane molecules. Fuel, 356, 129495. 
40.​
Rittig, J. G., et al. (2023). Graph ML for high-octane fuel discovery. AIChE Journal, 69(2), e17971. 
41.​
Aikawa, K., et al. (2010). Development of the Particulate Matter Index (PMI) for gasoline. SAE Technical Paper 2010-01-2115. 
42.​
Abdul Jameel, A. G., et al. (2021). Yield sooting index correlations for oxygenated fuels. Fuel, 286, 119390. 
43.​
Kalghatgi, G. T. (2001). Fuel octane and auto-ignition in HCCI. SAE Technical Paper 2001-01-3584. 
44.​
Galloni, E. (2012). HCCI combustion control with fuel reactivity. Energy Conversion and Management, 63, 3–11. 
45.​
Gollahalli, S. (1983). Water–fuel emulsions: NOx/soot reduction. Progress in Energy and Combustion Science, 9(3), 193–212. 
46.​
Hsuan, C. H., et al. (2019). Emulsified fuels and emissions. Applied Thermal Engineering, 149, 1176–1185. 
47.​
Li, H., et al. (2016). Filament-induced fluorescence for combustion intermediates. Applied Physics Letters, 109, 104101. 
48.​
Chen, Y., et al. (2024). Random-forest classification of flame images. Combustion and Flame, 259, 112–125. 
49.​
Mazzotta, D., et al. (2025). ML interpretation of NH₃–H₂ chemiluminescence. Combustion Science and Technology, 197(6), 945–965. 
50.​
ICCT (2016). Global fuel sulfur limits and emission standards. International Council on Clean Transportation Report. 
51.​
Needleman, H. (1990). Lead exposure and children’s IQ. New England Journal of Medicine, 322(2), 83–88. 
52.​
Kovarik, W. (2005). Ethyl-leaded gasoline: Midgley and Kettering’s legacy. Public Understanding of Science, 14(1), 3–39. 
53.​
Ritchie, H. (2022). The global end of leaded gasoline. Our World in Data. 
54.​
UNEP (2021). Elimination of leaded petrol globally: Final report. United Nations Environment Programme. 
55.​
Greg Landrum (2023). Using SA_Score and NP_Score in RDKit. RDKit Blog. 
56.​
Ertl, P., & Schuffenhauer, A. (2009). Estimation of synthetic accessibility score. Journal of Cheminformatics, 1, 8. 
57.​
MolPAL Team (2024). Multi-objective active learning for Pareto fronts. Digital Discovery, 3, 227–245.  
58.​
Degen, J., Wegscheid-Gerlach, C., Zaliani, A., & Rarey, M. (2008). On the art of compiling and using ‘drug-like’ chemical fragment spaces. 
ChemMedChem, 3(10), 1503–1507. https://doi.org/10.1002/cmdc.200800178​
 
59.​
Ertl, P., & Schuffenhauer, A. (2009). Estimation of synthetic accessibility score of drug-like molecules based on molecular complexity and 
fragment contributions. Journal of Cheminformatics, 1, 8. https://doi.org/10.1186/1758-2946-1-8​
 
60.​
Landrum, G. (2023). Using SA_Score and NP_Score in RDKit. RDKit Blog.​
 
61.​
Riniker, S., & Landrum, G. A. (2015). Better informed distance geometry: Using what we know to improve conformation generation. Journal of 
Chemical Information and Modeling, 55(12), 2562–2574. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.5b00654​
 
62.​
RDKit: Open-source cheminformatics. http://www.rdkit.org​
 
63.​
Deb, K., Pratap, A., Agarwal, S., & Meyarivan, T. (2002). A fast and elitist multiobjective genetic algorithm: NSGA-II. IEEE Transactions on 
Evolutionary Computation, 6(2), 182–197. https://doi.org/10.1109/4235.996017​
 
64.​
Blank, 
J., 
& 
Deb, 
K. 
(2020). 
pymoo: 
Multi-objective 
optimization 
in 
Python. 
IEEE 
Access, 
8, 
89497–89509. 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2990567​
 
65.​
Sterling, T., & Irwin, J. J. (2015). ZINC 15 – Ligand discovery for everyone. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 55(11), 2324–2337. 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.5b00559​
 
66.​
Green, W. H. et al. (2024). MolPAL: Multi-objective pool-based active learning for molecular discovery. Digital Discovery, 3, 375–390. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DD00227F​
 
67.​
Harris, C. R. et al. (2020). Array programming with NumPy. Nature, 585, 357–362. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2​
 
68.​
Virtanen, P. et al. (2020). SciPy 1.0: Fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in Python. Nature Methods, 17, 261–272. 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-019-0686-2​
 
69.​
Abadi, M. et al. (2016). TensorFlow: Large-scale machine learning on heterogeneous systems. https://www.tensorflow.org​
 
70.​
Paszke, A. et al. (2019). PyTorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. Advances in Neural Information Processing 
Systems, 32, 8026–8037.​
 
71.​
Yang, K. et al. (2019). Analyzing learned molecular representations for property prediction. JCIM, 59(8), 3370–3388. (Chemprop). 
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jcim.9b00237​
 
35 


===== PAGE 37 / 37 =====

 
72.​
Nigam, A., Pollice, R., Krenn, M., dos Passos Gomes, G., & Aspuru-Guzik, A. (2021). Beyond generative models: Superfast traversal, optimization, 
novelty, 
exploration 
and 
discovery 
(STONED) 
algorithm 
for 
molecules 
using 
SELFIES. 
Chemical 
Science, 
12, 
7079–7090. 
https://doi.org/10.1039/D0SC06501A​
 
73.​
Krenn, M., Häse, F., Nigam, A., Friederich, P., & Aspuru-Guzik, A. (2020). SELFIES: A robust representation of semantically constrained graphs with 
an example application in chemistry. Machine Learning: Science and Technology, 1(4), 045024. https://doi.org/10.1088/2632-2153/aba947​
 
74.​
Jin, W., Barzilay, R., & Jaakkola, T. (2018). Junction Tree Variational Autoencoder for molecular graph generation. ICML 2018, 2323–2332.​
 
75.​
Liu, B., Ramsundar, B., Kawthekar, P. et al. (2017). Retrosynthetic reaction prediction using neural sequence-to-sequence models. ACS Central 
Science, 3(10), 1103–1113. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.7b00303​
 
76.​
Genheden, S. et al. (2020). AiZynthFinder: A fast, robust and flexible open-source software for retrosynthetic planning. Journal of 
Cheminformatics, 12, 70. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13321-020-00472-1​
 
77.​
Segler, M. H. S., Preuss, M., & Waller, M. P. (2018). Planning chemical syntheses with deep neural networks and symbolic AI. Nature, 555, 
604–610. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature25978​
 
78.​
Venkatasubramanian, V., Chan, K., & Caruthers, J. M. (1994). Computer-aided molecular design using genetic algorithms. Computers & Chemical 
Engineering, 18(9), 833–844. https://doi.org/10.1016/0098-1354(94)80014-6​
 
79.​
Fleitmann, J., Reuss, D., & Maas, U. (2023). Evolutionary optimization of fuel molecules for SI engines. Fuel, 345, 128180. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2023.128180​
 
80.​
Leguy, J. et al. (2020). Evolutionary algorithms for inverse molecular design. Digital Discovery, 1, 48–61.​
 
81.​
Pedregosa, F. et al. (2011). Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 12, 2825–2830.​
 
82.​
NVIDIA Corporation. (2022). CUDA Toolkit Documentation. https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/​
 
83.​
Intel Corporation. (2022). 12th Gen Intel® Core™ processors datasheet.​
 
84.​
Sutter, H. (2005). The free lunch is over: A fundamental turn toward concurrency in software. Dr. Dobb’s Journal.​
 
85.​
McKinney, W. (2010). Data structures for statistical computing in Python. Proceedings of the 9th Python in Science Conference, 56–61. (pandas).​
 
86.​
Stone, R. (1999). Introduction to Internal Combustion Engines (3rd ed.). SAE International.​
 
87.​
Heywood, J. B. (1988). Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals. McGraw-Hill. 
 
 
 
36 
